                                         Basel Committee on
                                         Banking Supervision



                                         The Basel Framework
                                         The Basel Framework is the full set of standards
                                         of the Basel Committee on Banking Supervision
                                         (BCBS), which is the primary global standard
                                         setter for the prudential regulation of banks. The
                                         membership of the BCBS has agreed to fully
                                         implement these standards and apply them to
                                         the internationally active banks in their
                                         jurisdictions. The background page describes the
                                         framework's structure and how to navigate it.



                                 SCO
                                 Scope and definitions
                                 This standard describes the scope of application
                                 of the Basel Framework.









10.1   This framework will be applied on a consolidated basis to internationally active
       banks. Consolidated supervision is the best means to provide supervisors with a
       comprehensive view of risks and to reduce opportunities for regulatory arbitrage.

10.2   The scope of application of the framework will include, on a fully consolidated
       basis, any holding company that is the parent entity within a banking group to
       ensure that it captures the risk of the whole banking group. Banking groups are
       groups that engage predominantly in banking activities and, in some countries, a
       banking group may be registered as a bank.


A holding company that is a parent of a banking group may itself have
                   a parent holding company. In some structures, this parent holding
                   company may not be subject to this framework because it is not
                   considered a parent of a banking group.


10.3   The framework will also apply to all internationally active banks at every tier
       within a banking group, also on a fully consolidated basis (see illustrative chart at
       the end of this section).


As an alternative to full sub-consolidation, the application of this
                   framework to the stand-alone bank (ie on a basis that does not
                   consolidate assets and liabilities of subsidiaries) would achieve the
                   same objective, providing the full book value of any investments in
                   subsidiaries and significant minority-owned stakes is deducted from
                   the bank’s capital.


10.4   Further, to supplement consolidated supervision, it is essential to ensure that
       capital recognised in capital adequacy measures is adequately distributed
       amongst legal entities of a banking group. Accordingly, supervisors should test
       that individual banks are adequately capitalised on a stand-alone basis.




       FAQ
       FAQ1        How should banks treat investments in banks, insurance companies
                   and other financial institutions that are included in the consolidated
                   group in computing the capital ratio for the stand-alone parent bank
                   entity?

                   The Basel framework is applied on a consolidated basis to
                   internationally active banks. It captures the risks of a whole banking
                   group. Although the framework recognises the need for adequate
                   capitalisation on a stand-alone basis, it does not prescribe how to
                   measure the solo capital requirements which is left to individual
                   supervisory authorities.


10.5   The diagram below illustrates the scope of application of this framework, where
       (A) represents the boundary of the predominant banking group, to which the
       framework is to be applied on a consolidated basis (ie up to holding company
       level, as described in SCO10.2). With respect to (B), (C) and (D), the framework is
       also to be applied at lower levels to all internationally active banks on a
       consolidated basis.




                                 SCO30
                                 Banking, securities and other
                                 financial subsidiaries
                                 This chapter describes the treatment of financial
                                 subsidiaries within banking groups subject to the
                                 Basel framework.







Consolidation
30.1   To the greatest extent possible, all banking and other relevant financial activities
       (both regulated and unregulated) conducted within a group containing an
       internationally active bank will be captured through consolidation. Thus, majority-
       owned or -controlled banking entities, securities entities (where subject to
       broadly similar regulation or where securities activities are deemed banking
       activities) and other financial entities should generally be fully consolidated. The
       treatment of minority interests and other capital issued out of consolidated
       subsidiaries that is held by third parties is set out in CAP10.


  “Financial activities” do not include insurance activities and “financial
                   entities” do not include insurance entities.

Examples of the types of activities that financial entities might be
                   involved in include financial leasing, issuing credit cards, portfolio
                   management, investment advisory, custodial and safekeeping services
                   and other similar activities that are ancillary to the business of banking.


30.2   There may be instances where it is not feasible or desirable to consolidate certain
       securities or other regulated financial entities. This would be only in cases where
       such holdings are acquired through debt previously contracted and held on a
       temporary basis, are subject to different regulation, or where non-consolidation
       for regulatory capital purposes is otherwise required by law. In such cases, it is
       imperative for the bank supervisor to obtain sufficient information from
       supervisors responsible for such entities.

30.3   If any majority-owned securities and other financial subsidiaries are not
       consolidated for capital purposes, all equity and other regulatory capital (or, if
       applicable, other total loss-absorbing capacity) investments in those entities
       attributable to the group will be deducted (as described in CAP30), and the assets
       and liabilities, as well as third-party capital investments in the subsidiary will be
       removed from the bank’s balance sheet. Supervisors will ensure that an entity
       that is not consolidated and for which the capital investment is deducted meets
       regulatory capital requirements. Supervisors will monitor actions taken by the
       subsidiary to correct any capital shortfall and, if it is not corrected in a timely
       manner, the shortfall will also be deducted from the parent bank’s capital.




30.4   Significant minority investments in banking, securities and other financial entities,
       where control does not exist, will be excluded from the banking group’s capital
       by deduction of the equity and other regulatory investments (as described in
       CAP30). Alternatively, such investments might be, under certain conditions,
       consolidated on a pro rata basis. For example, pro rata consolidation may be
       appropriate for joint ventures or where the supervisor is satisfied that the parent
       is legally or de facto expected to support the entity on a proportionate basis only
       and the other significant shareholders have the means and the willingness to
       proportionately support it. The threshold above which minority investments will
       be deemed significant and be thus either deducted or consolidated on a pro-rata
       basis is to be determined by national accounting and/or regulatory practices. As
       an example, the threshold for pro-rata inclusion in the European Union is defined
       as equity interests of between 20% and 50%.


Insurance entities
30.5   A bank that owns an insurance subsidiary bears the full entrepreneurial risks of
       the subsidiary and should recognise on a group-wide basis the risks included in
       the whole group. When measuring regulatory capital for banks, the Committee
       believes that it is, in principle, appropriate to deduct banks’ equity and other
       regulatory capital investments in insurance subsidiaries and also significant
       minority investments in insurance entities. Under this approach the bank would
       remove from its balance sheet assets and liabilities, as well as third party capital
       investments in an insurance subsidiary. The bank’s equity or other capital
       investment in the insurance subsidiary is then treated according to CAP30.21 to
       CAP30.34. Alternative approaches that can be applied should, in any case, include
       a group-wide perspective for determining capital adequacy and avoid double
       counting of capital. Banks should also disclose the national regulatory approach
       used with respect to insurance entities in determining their reported capital
       positions (see DIS30).




     FAQ
     FAQ1      Can significant investments in insurance entities, including fully owned
               insurance subsidiaries, be consolidated for regulatory purposes as an
               alternative to the deduction treatment set out in CAP30.28 to CAP30.34
               ?

               Jurisdictions can permit or require banks to consolidate significant
               investments in insurance entities as an alternative to the deduction
               approach on the condition that the method of consolidation results in a
               minimum capital standard that is at least as conservative as that
               which would apply under the deduction approach, ie the consolidation
               method cannot result in banks benefiting from higher capital ratios
               than would apply under the deduction approach.

               In order to ensure this outcome, banks that apply a consolidation
               approach are required to calculate their capital ratios under both the
               consolidation approach and the deduction approach, at each period
               that they report or disclose these ratios.

               In cases when the consolidation approach results in lower capital ratios
               than the deduction approach (ie consolidation has a more conservative
               outcome than deduction), banks will report these lower ratios. In cases
               when the consolidation approach results in any of the bank’s capital
               ratios being higher than the ratios calculated under the deduction
               approach (ie consolidation has a less conservative outcome than
               deduction), the bank must adjust the capital ratio downwards through
               applying a regulatory adjustment (ie a deduction) to the relevant
               component of capital.




30.6   The capital invested in a majority-owned or -controlled insurance entity may
       exceed the amount of regulatory capital required for such an entity (surplus
       capital). Supervisors may permit the recognition of such surplus capital in
       calculating a bank’s capital adequacy, under limited circumstances and subject to
       disclosure (see DIS30). National regulatory practices will determine the
       parameters and criteria, such as legal transferability, for assessing the amount
       and availability of surplus capital that could be recognised in bank capital. Other
       examples of availability criteria include: restrictions on transferability due to
       regulatory constraints, to tax implications and to adverse impacts on external
       credit assessment institutions’ ratings. Where a bank does not have a full
       ownership interest in an insurance entity (eg 50% or more but less than 100%
       interest), surplus capital recognised should be proportionate to the percentage
       interest held. Surplus capital in significant minority-owned insurance entities will
       not be recognised, as the bank would not be in a position to direct the transfer of
       the capital in an entity which it does not control.


 In a deduction approach, the amount deducted for all equity and other
                   regulatory capital investments will be adjusted to reflect the amount of
                   capital in those entities that is in surplus to regulatory requirements, ie
                   the amount deducted would be the lesser of the investment or the
                   regulatory capital requirement. The amount representing the surplus
                   capital, ie the difference between the amount of the investment in
                   those entities and their regulatory capital requirement, would be risk-
                   weighted as an equity investment. If using an alternative group-wide
                   approach, an equivalent treatment of surplus capital will be made.


30.7   Supervisors will ensure that majority-owned or controlled insurance subsidiaries,
       which are not consolidated and for which capital investments are deducted or
       subject to an alternative group-wide approach, are themselves adequately
       capitalised to reduce the possibility of future potential losses to the bank.
       Supervisors will monitor actions taken by the subsidiary to correct any capital
       shortfall and, if it is not corrected in a timely manner, the shortfall will also be
       deducted from the parent bank’s capital.




                                 SCO40
                                 Global systemically important
                                 banks
                                 This chapter describes the indicator-based
                                 measurement approach for assessing the
                                 systemic importance of global systemically
                                 important banks (G-SIBs).



Introduction
40.1   The negative externalities associated with institutions that are perceived as not
       being allowed to fail due to their size, interconnectedness, complexity, lack of
       substitutability or global scope are well recognised. In maximising their private
       benefits, individual financial institutions may rationally choose outcomes that, on
       a system-wide level, are suboptimal because they do not take into account these
       externalities. Moreover, the moral hazard costs associated with implicit
       guarantees derived from the perceived expectation of government support may
       amplify risk-taking, reduce market discipline and create competitive distortions,
       and further increase the probability of distress in the future. As a result, the costs
       associated with moral hazard add to any direct costs of support that may be
       borne by taxpayers.

40.2   In addition, given the potential cross-border repercussions of a problem in any of
       the global systemically important banks (G-SIBs) on the financial institutions in
       many countries and on the global economy at large, this is not uniquely a
       problem for national authorities, and therefore requires a global minimum
       agreement.

40.3   Because there is no single solution to the externalities posed by G-SIBs, the
       official community is addressing these issues through a multipronged approach.
       The broad aim of the policies is to:

       (1) reduce the probability of failure of G-SIBs by increasing their going-concern
           loss-absorbency (addressed by the measures in this chapter, RBC40 and
           other G-SIB-specific measures in the Basel framework); and

       (2) reduce the extent or impact of failure of G-SIBs, by improving global
           recovery and resolution measures (where work is led by the Financial
           Stability Board, or FSB).


Assessing systemic importance
40.4   The Basel Committee’s methodology for assessing the systemic importance of G-
       SIBs relies on an indicator-based measurement approach. The selected indicators
       are chosen to reflect the different aspects of what generates negative
       externalities and makes a bank critical for the stability of the financial system. The
       advantage of the multiple indicator-based measurement approach is that it
       encompasses many dimensions of systemic importance, is relatively simple and is
       more robust than currently available model-based measurement approaches and
       methodologies that rely on only a small set of indicators or market variables.




40.5
       Given the focus of the framework on cross-border spillovers and negative global
       externalities that arise from the failure of a globally active bank, the reference
       system for assessing systemic impact is the global economy. Consequently,
       systemic importance is assessed based on data that relate to the consolidated
       group (ie the unit of analysis is the consolidated group). To be consistent with
       this approach, the higher loss absorbency requirement applies to the
       consolidated group. However, as with the minimum requirement and the capital
       conservation and countercyclical buffers, application at the consolidated level
       does not rule out the option for the host jurisdictions of subsidiaries of the group
       also to apply the requirement at the individual legal entity or consolidated level
       within their jurisdiction.

40.6   The Committee is of the view that global systemic importance should be
       measured in terms of the impact that a bank’s failure can have on the global
       financial system and wider economy, rather than the likelihood that a failure
       could occur. This can be thought of as a global, system-wide, loss-given-default
       (LGD) concept rather than a probability of default (PD) concept.

40.7   The methodology gives an equal weight of 20% to each of five categories of
       systemic importance, which are: size, cross-jurisdictional activity,
       interconnectedness, substitutability/financial institution infrastructure and
       complexity. With the exception of the size category, the Committee has identified
       multiple indicators in each of the categories, with each indicator equally weighted
       within its category, except for the substitutability category. That is, where there
       are two indicators in a category, each indicator is given a 10% overall weight;
       where there are three, the indicators are each weighted 6.67% (ie 20/3). In the
       substitutability category, two indicators are weighted 6.67% (assets under
       custody and payment activity), while underwritten transactions in debt and equity
       markets and the new trading volume indicator each weigh 3.33%. This split
       reflects the complementary role of the trading volume indicator, which is to
       capture potential disruptions in the provision of liquidity in the secondary market
       for some exposures, while the underwriting indicator captures liquidity in the
       primary market.

40.8   In 2013, the Committee found that, relative to the other categories that make up
       the G-SIB framework, the substitutability category has a greater impact on the
       assessment of systemic importance than the Committee intended for banks that
       are dominant in the provision of payment, underwriting and asset custody
       services. Therefore, the Committee decided to apply a cap to the substitutability
       category by limiting the maximum score to 500 basis points.




40.9   The global systemically important insurers framework does not formally capture
       the insurance subsidiaries of banking groups. Furthermore, some jurisdictions
       include insurance subsidiaries in their regulatory scope of consolidation whilst
       others do not, which may create an inconsistency in the systemic assessment of
       banking groups across jurisdictions. Against this background, the Committee has
       decided to include insurance activities for the following indicators: total
       exposures, intra-financial system assets, intra-financial system liabilities, securities
       outstanding, notional amount of over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives and level 3
       assets in the size, interconnectedness and complexity categories. The approach
       therefore includes the following indicators with the following weights:

        Indicator-based measurement approach                                               Table 1


        Category (and weighting)               Individual indicator          Indicator weighting

        Cross-jurisdictional activity (20%)         Cross-jurisdictional claims                    10%
        
                                     Cross-jurisdictional liabilities               10%

        Size (20%)                   Total exposures as defined for use in the Basel III leverage ratio*         20%
                                     

        Interconnectedness (20%)     Intra-financial system assets*                6.67%

                                     Intra-financial system liabilities*           6.67%

                                     Securities outstanding*                       6.67%

        Substitutability/financial institution infrastructure  (20%)   Assets under custody                          6.67% 
        
                              Payments activity                             6.67%

                                     Underwritten transactions in debt and  equity markets         3.33%
                                    

                                     Trading volume                                3.33%

        Complexity (20%)             Notional amount of OTC derivatives*           6.67%

                                     Level 3 assets*                               6.67%

                                     Trading and available-for-sale   securities               6.67%
                                    

        * Extended scope of consolidation to include insurance activities.




40.10 For each bank, the score for a particular indicator is calculated by dividing the
      individual bank amount (expressed in EUR) by the aggregate amount for the
      indicator summed across all banks in the sample. This amount is then multiplied
      by 10,000 to express the indicator score in terms of basis points. For example, if a
      bank’s size divided by the total size of all banks in the sample is 0.03 (ie the bank
      makes up 3% of the sample total) its score will be expressed as 300 basis points.
      Each category score for each bank is determined by taking a simple average of
      the indicator scores in that category. The overall score for each bank is then
      calculated by taking a simple average of its five category scores and then
      rounding to the nearest whole basis point. The maximum total score, ie the score
      that a bank would have if it were the only bank in sample, is 10,000 basis points
      (ie 100%).

 See SCO40.19 for a description of how the sample of banks is
                   determined.

Fractional values between 0 and 0.5 are rounded down, while values
                   from 0.5 to 1 are rounded up.

This ignores the impact of the cap on the substitutability category. The
                   impact of the cap is such that the actual maximum score if there were
                   only one bank in the sample is 8,000 basis points plus one fifth of the
                   maximum substitutability score.


40.11 When calculating a bank’s indicators, the data must be converted from the
      reporting currency to euros using the exchange rates published on the Basel
      Committee website. These rates should not be rounded in performing the
      conversions, as this may lead to inaccurate results.




40.12 There are different sets of currency conversions on the website, each
      corresponding to a different fiscal year-end. Within each set, there are two
      conversion tables. The first is a point-in-time, or spot, conversion rate
      corresponding to the following fiscal year-ends: 30 September, 30 October, 31
      December, and 31 March (of the following year). The second set is an average of
      the exchange rates over the relevant fiscal year. Unless the bank decides to
      collect the daily flow data in the reporting currency directly and convert the data
      using a consistent set of daily exchange rate quotations, the average rates over
      the bank’s fiscal year should be used to convert the individual payments data into
      the bank’s reporting currency. The 31 December spot rate should be used to
      convert each of the 12 indicator values (including total payments activity) to the
      G-SIB assessment methodology reporting currency (ie euros).


Cross-jurisdictional activity
40.13 Given the focus on G-SIBs, the objective of this indicator is to capture banks’
      global footprint. Two indicators in this category measure the importance of the
      bank’s activities outside its home (headquarter) jurisdiction relative to overall
      activity of other banks in the sample:

       (1) cross-jurisdictional claims; and

       (2) cross-jurisdictional liabilities.

40.14 The idea is that the international impact of a bank’s distress or failure would vary
      in line with its share of cross-jurisdictional assets and liabilities. The greater a
      bank’s global reach, the more difficult it is to coordinate its resolution and the
      more widespread the spillover effects from its failure.


Size
40.15 A bank’s distress or failure is more likely to damage the global economy or
      financial markets if its activities comprise a large share of global activity. The
      larger the bank, the more difficult it is for its activities to be quickly replaced by
      other banks and therefore the greater the chance that its distress or failure would
      cause disruption to the financial markets in which it operates. The distress or
      failure of a large bank is also more likely to damage confidence in the financial
      system as a whole. Size is therefore a key measure of systemic importance. One
      indicator is used to measure size: the measure of total exposures used in the
      Basel III leverage ratio, including exposures arising from insurance subsidiaries.




Interconnectedness
40.16 Financial distress at one institution can materially increase the likelihood of
      distress at other institutions given the network of contractual obligations in which
      these firms operate. A bank’s systemic impact is likely to be positively related to
      its interconnectedness vis-à-vis other financial institutions. Three indicators are
      used to measure interconnectedness, all of which include insurance subsidiaries:

       (1) intra-financial system assets;

       (2) intra-financial system liabilities; and

       (3) securities outstanding.


Substitutability / financial institution infrastructure
40.17 The systemic impact of a bank’s distress or failure is expected to be negatively
      related to its degree of substitutability as both a market participant and client
      service provider, ie it is expected to be positively related to the extent to which
      the bank provides financial institution infrastructure. For example, the greater a
      bank’s role in a particular business line, or as a service provider in underlying
      market infrastructure (eg payment systems), the larger the disruption will likely be
      following its failure, in terms of both service gaps and reduced flow of market
      and infrastructure liquidity. At the same time, the cost to the failed bank’s
      customers in having to seek the same service from another institution is likely to
      be higher for a failed bank with relatively greater market share in providing the
      service. Four indicators are used to measure substitutability/financial institution
      infrastructure:

       (1) assets under custody;

       (2) payments activity;

       (3) underwritten transactions in debt and equity markets; and

       (4) trading volume.


Complexity
40.18 The systemic impact of a bank’s distress or failure is expected to be positively
      related to its overall complexity – that is, its business, structural and operational
      complexity. The more complex a bank is, the greater are the costs and time
      needed to resolve the bank. Three indictors are used to measure complexity, the
      first two of which include insurance subsidiaries:



       (1) notional amount of OTC derivatives;

       (2) Level 3 assets; and

       (3) trading and available-for-sale securities.


Sample of banks
40.19 The indicator-based measurement approach uses a large sample of banks as its
      proxy for the global banking sector. Data supplied by this sample of banks is then
      used to calculate banks’ scores. Banks fulfilling any of the following criteria will be
      included in the sample and will be required to submit the full set of data used in
      the assessment methodology to their supervisors:

       (1) Banks that the Committee identifies as the 75 largest global banks, based on
           the financial year-end Basel III leverage ratio exposure measure, including
           exposures arising from insurance subsidiaries.

       (2) Banks that were designated as G-SIBs in the previous year (unless
           supervisors agree that there is compelling reason to exclude them).

       (3) Banks that have been added to the sample by national supervisors using
           supervisory judgment (subject to certain criteria).


Bucketing approach
40.20 Banks that have a score produced by the indicator-based measurement approach
      that exceeds a cutoff level are classified as G-SIBs. Supervisory judgment may
      also be used to add banks with scores below the cutoff to the list of G-SIBs. This
      judgment will be exercised according to the principles set out in SCO40.23 to
      SCO40.26.

40.21 Each year, the Committee runs the assessment and, if necessary, reallocates G-
      SIBs into different categories of systemic importance based on their scores and
      supervisory judgment. G-SIBs are allocated into equally sized buckets based on
      their scores of systemic importance, with varying levels of higher loss absorbency
      requirements applied to the different buckets as set out in RBC40.4 and RBC40.5.
      The cutoff score for G-SIB designation is 130 basis points and the buckets
      corresponding to the different higher loss absorbency requirements each have a
      range of 100 basis points.

Cutoff scores and bucket thresholds are available at 


40.22 The number of G-SIBs, and their bucket allocations, will evolve over time as banks
      change their behaviour in response to the incentives of the G-SIB framework as
      well as other aspects of Basel III and country-specific regulations. Moreover, if a
      bank’s score increases such that it exceeds the top threshold of the fourth bucket,
      new buckets will be added to accommodate the bank. New buckets will be equal
      in size in terms of scores to each of the existing buckets, and will have
      incremental higher loss absorbency requirements, as set out in RBC40.4 and
      RBC40.5, to provide incentives for banks to avoid becoming more systemically
      important.


Criteria for supervisory judgment
40.23 Supervisory judgment can support the results derived from the indicator-based
      measurement approach of the assessment methodology. The Committee has
      developed four principles for supervisory judgment:

       (1) The bar for judgmental adjustment to the scores should be high: in
           particular, judgment should only be used to override the indicator-based
           measurement approach in exceptional cases. Those cases are expected to be
           rare.

       (2) The process should focus on factors pertaining to a bank's global systemic
           impact, ie the impact of the bank’s distress/failure and not the probability of
           distress/failure (ie the riskiness) of the bank.

       (3) Views on the quality of the policy/resolution framework within a jurisdiction
           should not play a role in this G-SIB identification process.

       (4) The judgmental overlay should comprise well documented and verifiable
           quantitative as well as qualitative information.




However, this is not meant to preclude any other actions that the
                   Committee, the FSB or national supervisors may wish to take for global
                   systemically important financial institutions to address the quality of
                   the policy/resolution framework. For example, national supervisors
                   could impose higher capital surcharges beyond the higher loss
                   absorbency requirements for G-SIBs that do not have an effective and
                   credible recovery and resolution plan.



Ancillary indicators
40.24 The Committee has identified a number of ancillary indicators relating to specific
      aspects of the systemic importance of an institution that may not be captured by
      the indicator-based measurement approach alone. These indicators can be used
      to support the judgment overlay.

40.25 The ancillary indicators are set out in the reporting template and related
      instructions, which are available on the Committee’s website.






Qualitative supervisory judgment
40.26 Supervisory judgment can also be based on qualitative information. This is
      intended to capture information that cannot be easily quantified in the form of
      an indicator, for example, a major restructuring of a bank’s operation. Qualitative
      judgments should also be thoroughly explained and supported by verifiable
      arguments.


Process for incorporating supervisory judgment
40.27 The supervisory judgmental overlay can be incorporated using the following
      sequential steps to the score produced by the indicator-based measurement
      approach:

       (1) Collection of the data and supervisory commentary for all banks in the
           sample.




       (2) Mechanical application of the indicator-based measurement approach and
           corresponding bucketing.

       (3) Relevant authorities propose adjustments to the score of individual banks
           on the basis of an agreed process.

       (4) The Committee develops recommendations for the FSB.

       (5) The FSB and national authorities, in consultation with the Basel Committee,
           make final decisions.


The data collection can start in the second quarter and be finalised in
                   third quarter each year, subject to consultation with national
                   supervisors.

Relevant authorities mainly refer to home and host supervisors.


40.28 The supervisory judgment input to the results of the indicator-based
      measurement approach should be conducted in an effective and transparent way
      and ensure that the final outcome is consistent with the views of the Committee
      as a group. Challenges to the results of the indicator-based measurement
      approach should only be made if they involve a material impact in the treatment
      of a specific bank (eg resulting in a different loss absorbency requirement). To
      limit the risk that resources are used ineffectively, when the authority is not the
      bank’s home supervisor it would be required to take into account the views of the
      bank’s home and major host supervisors. These could be, for instance, the
      members of the institution’s college of supervisors.

40.29 In addition to the materiality and consultation requirements, proposals to
      challenge the indicator-based measurement approach will be subject to the
      following modalities. Proposals originating from the home supervisor that result
      in a lower loss absorbency requirement would be scrutinised and would require a
      stronger justification than those resulting in a higher loss absorbency
      requirement. The reverse would apply to proposals originating from other
      authorities: those recommending a higher loss-absorbency requirement would be
      subject to higher standards of proof and documentation. The rationale for this
      asymmetric treatment follows the general principle that the Committee is setting
      minimum standards.




Periodic review and refinement
40.30 The methodology, including the indicator-based measurement approach itself,
      the cutoff/threshold scores and the size of the sample of banks, are regularly
      monitored and reviewed by the Committee in order to ensure that they remain
      appropriate in light of: (i) developments in the banking sector; (ii) progress in
      methods and approaches for measuring systemic importance; (iii) structural
      changes; and (iv) any evidence of material unintended consequences or material
      deficiencies with respect to the objectives of the framework. As regards the
      structural changes in regional arrangements – in particular in the European
      Banking Union – they will be reviewed as actual changes are made.

40.31 The Committee expects national jurisdictions to prepare a framework in which
      banks are able to provide high-quality data for the indicators. In order to ensure
      the transparency of the methodology, the Committee expects banks to disclose
      relevant data and has set out disclosure requirements in SCO40.32 to SCO40.34.
      The Committee discloses the values of the cutoff scores, the threshold scores for
      buckets, the denominators used to normalise the indicator values and the G-SIB
      indicators of all banks so that banks, regulators and market participants can
      understand how actions banks take could affect their systemic importance score
      and thereby the applicable magnitude of the HLA requirement.


Disclosure requirements
40.32 For each financial year-end, all banks with a leverage ratio exposure measure,
      including exposures arising from insurance subsidiaries, that exceeded EUR 200
      billion in the previous year-end (using the exchange rate applicable at the
      financial year-end) should be required by national authorities to make publicly
      available the 13 indicators used in the assessment methodology. Banks should
      note in their disclosures that those figures are subject to revision and
      restatement.

40.33 Banks below this threshold that have been added to the sample owing to
      supervisory judgment or as a result of being classified as a G-SIB in the previous
      year would also be required to comply with the disclosure requirements.

40.34 Banks should also be required by national authorities to publicly disclose if the
      data used to calculate the G-SIB scores differ from the figures previously
      disclosed. To the extent that a revision to the data is required, banks should
      disclose the accurate figures in the financial quarter immediately following the
      finalisation of the Committee’s G-SIB score calculation.




Operational timetable
40.35 The assessment methodology set out in this chapter applies from 2021, based on
      end-2020 data. The corresponding higher loss absorbency requirement (defined
      in RBC40) applies from 1 January 2023.




                                 SCO50
                                 Domestic systemically
                                 important banks
                                 This chapter describes principles to identify
                                 domestic systemically important banks.


                                Introduction
50.1   The Committee has developed a set of principles that constitutes the domestic
       systemically important bank (D-SIB) framework. The 12 principles can be broadly
       categorised into two groups: the first group (SCO50.5) focuses mainly on the
       assessment methodology for D-SIBs while the second group (RBC40.7) focuses
       on higher loss absorbency (HLA) for D-SIBs.


HLA refers to higher loss absorbency relative to the Basel III
                   requirements for internationally active banks. For domestic banks that
                   are not internationally active, HLA is relative to requirements for
                   domestic banks.


50.2   The principles were developed to be applied to consolidated groups and
       subsidiaries. However, national authorities may apply them to branches in their
       jurisdictions in accordance with their legal and regulatory frameworks.


While the application to branches of the principles regarding the
                   assessment of systemic importance should not pose any specific
                   problem, the range of policy responses that host authorities have
                   available to deal with systemic branches in their jurisdiction may be
                   more limited.


50.3   The additional requirements applied to global systemically important banks (G-
       SIBs), which apply over and above the Basel requirements applying to all
       internationally active banks, are intended to limit the cross-border negative
       externalities on the global financial system and economy associated with the
       most globally systemic banking institutions. Similar externalities can apply at a
       domestic level. There are many banks that are not significant from an
       international perspective, but nevertheless could have an important impact on
       their domestic financial system and economy compared to non-systemic
       institutions. Some of these banks may have cross-border externalities, even if the
       effects are not global in nature.




50.4   A D-SIB framework is best understood as taking the complementary perspective
       to the G-SIB regime by focusing on the impact that the distress or failure of
       banks (including by international banks) will have on the domestic economy. As
       such, it is based on the assessment conducted by the local authorities, who are
       best placed to evaluate the impact of failure on the local financial system and the
       local economy. This point has two implications:

       (1) The first is that, in order to accommodate the structural characteristics of
           individual jurisdictions, the assessment and application of policy tools should
           allow for an appropriate degree of national discretion. This contrasts with the
           prescriptive approach in the G-SIB framework.

       (2) The second implication is that, because a D-SIB framework is still relevant for
           reducing cross-border externalities due to spillovers at regional or bilateral
           level, the effectiveness of local authorities in addressing risks posed by
           individual banks is of interest to a wider group of countries. A D-SIB
           framework, therefore, should establish a minimum set of principles, which
           ensures that it is complementary with the G-SIB framework, addresses
           adequately cross-border externalities and promotes a level playing field.


Principles on the D-SIB assessment methodology
50.5   The principles on the D-SIB assessment methodology are set out below:

       (1) National authorities should establish a methodology for assessing the
           degree to which banks are systemically important in a domestic context.

       (2) The assessment methodology for a D-SIB should reflect the potential impact
           of, or externality imposed by, a bank's failure.

       (3) The reference system for assessing the impact of failure of a D-SIB should be
           the domestic economy.

       (4) Home authorities should assess banks for their degree of systemic
           importance at the consolidated group level, while host authorities should
           assess subsidiaries in their jurisdictions, consolidated to include any of their
           own downstream subsidiaries, for their degree of systemic importance.




       (5) The impact of a D-SIB's failure on the domestic economy should, in principle,
           be assessed having regard to bank-specific factors. National authorities can
           consider other measures / data that would inform the bank-specific
           indicators within each of the below factors, such as size of the domestic
           economy:

           (a) size;

           (b) interconnectedness;

           (c)   substitutability / financial institution infrastructure (including
                 considerations related to the concentrated nature of the banking
                 sector); and

           (d) complexity (including the additional complexities from cross-border
               activity).

       (6) National authorities should undertake regular assessments of the systemic
           importance of the banks in their jurisdictions to ensure that their assessment
           reflects the current state of the relevant financial systems and that the
           interval between D-SIB assessments not be significantly longer than the G-
           SIB assessment frequency.

       (7) National authorities should publicly disclose information that provides an
           outline of the methodology employed to assess the systemic importance of
           banks in their domestic economy.


Principles 1 and 2: assessment methodologies
50.6   A starting point for the development of principles for the assessment of D-SIBs is
       a requirement that all national authorities should undertake an assessment of the
       degree to which banks are systemically important in a domestic context. The
       rationale for focusing on the domestic context is outlined in SCO50.10.

50.7   SCO40.6 states that “global systemic importance should be measured in terms of
       the impact that a failure of a bank can have on the global financial system and
       wider economy rather than the likelihood that a failure can occur. This can be
       thought of as a global, system-wide, loss-given-default (LGD) concept rather than
       a probability of default (PD) concept.” Consistent with the G-SIB methodology,
       the Committee is of the view that D-SIBs should also be assessed in terms of the
       potential impact of their failure on the relevant reference system. One implication
       of this is that to the extent that D-SIB indicators are included in any
       methodology, they should primarily relate to “impact of failure” measures and
       not “risk of failure” measures.




Principles 3 and 4: reference system and scope of assessment
50.8   Two key aspects that shape the D-SIB framework and define its relationship to
       the G-SIB framework relate to how it deals with two conceptual issues with
       important practical implications:

       (1) what is the reference system for the assessment of systemic impact; and

       (2) what is the appropriate unit of analysis (ie the entity which is being
           assessed)?

50.9   For the G-SIB framework, the appropriate reference system is the global
       economy, given the focus on cross-border spillovers and the negative global
       externalities that arise from the failure of a globally active bank. As such this
       allowed for an assessment of the banks that are systemically important in a
       global context. The unit of analysis was naturally set at the globally consolidated
       level of a banking group (SCO40.5 states that “systemic importance is assessed
       based on data that relate to the consolidated group”).

50.10 Correspondingly, a process for assessing systemic importance in a domestic
      context should focus on addressing the externalities that a bank’s failure
      generates at a domestic level. Thus, the Committee is of the view that the
      appropriate reference system should be the domestic economy, ie that banks
      would be assessed by the national authorities for their systemic importance to
      that specific jurisdiction. The outcome would be an assessment of banks active in
      the domestic economy in terms of their systemic importance.

50.11 In terms of the unit of analysis, the Committee is of the view that home
      authorities should consider banks from a (globally) consolidated perspective. This
      is because the activities of a bank outside the home jurisdiction can, when the
      bank fails, have potential significant spillovers to the domestic (home) economy.
      Jurisdictions that are home to banking groups that engage in cross-border
      activity could be impacted by the failure of the whole banking group and not just
      the part of the group that undertakes domestic activity in the home economy.
      This is particularly important given the possibility that the home government may
      have to fund/resolve the foreign operations in the absence of relevant cross-
      border agreements. This is in line with the concept of the G-SIB framework.




50.12 When it comes to the host authorities, the Committee is of the view that they
      should assess foreign subsidiaries in their jurisdictions, also consolidated to
      include any of their own downstream subsidiaries, some of which may be in other
      jurisdictions. For example, for a cross-border financial group headquartered in
      country X, the authorities in country Y would only consider subsidiaries of the
      group in country Y plus the downstream subsidiaries, some of which may be in
      country Z, and their impact on the economy Y. Thus, subsidiaries of foreign
      banking groups would be considered from a local or sub-consolidated basis from
      the level starting in country Y. The scope should be based on regulatory
      consolidation as in the case of the G-SIB framework. Therefore, for the purposes
      of assessing D-SIBs, insurance or other non-banking activities should only be
      included insofar as they are included in the regulatory consolidation.

50.13 The assessment of foreign subsidiaries at the local consolidated level also
      acknowledges the fact that the failure of global banking groups could impose
      outsized externalities at the local (host) level when these subsidiaries are
      significant elements in the local (host) banking system. This is important since
      there exist several jurisdictions that are dominated by foreign subsidiaries of
      internationally active banking groups.


Principle 5: assessing the impact of a D-SIB’s failure
50.14 The G-SIB methodology identifies five broad categories of factors that influence
      global systemic importance: size, cross-jurisdictional activity, interconnectedness,
      substitutability/financial institution infrastructure and complexity. The indicator-
      based approach and weighting system in the G-SIB methodology was developed
      to ensure a consistent international ranking of G-SIBs. The Committee is of the
      view that this degree of detail is not warranted for D-SIBs, given the focus is on
      the domestic impact of failure of a bank and the wide ranging differences in each
      jurisdiction’s financial structure hinder such international comparisons being
      made. This is one of the reasons why the D-SIB framework has been developed as
      a principles-based approach.

50.15 Consistent with this view, it is appropriate to list, at a high level, the broad
      category of factors (eg size) that jurisdictions should have regard to in assessing
      the impact of a D-SIB's failure. Among the five categories in the G-SIB framework,
      size, interconnectedness, substitutability/financial institution infrastructure and
      complexity are all relevant for D-SIBs as well. Cross-jurisdictional activity, the
      remaining category, may not be as directly relevant, since it measures the degree
      of global (cross-jurisdictional) activity of a bank which is not the focus of the D-
      SIB framework.




50.16 In addition, national authorities may choose to also include some country-specific
      factors. A good example is the size of a bank relative to domestic gross domestic

       product (GDP). If the size of a bank is relatively large compared to the domestic
       GDP, it would make sense for the national authority of the jurisdiction to identify
       it as a D-SIB whereas a same-sized bank in another jurisdiction, which is smaller
       relative to the GDP of that jurisdiction, may not be identified as a D-SIB.

50.17 National authorities should have national discretion as to the appropriate relative
      weights they place on these factors depending on national circumstances.


Principle 6: regular assessment of systemic importance
50.18 The Committee believes it is good practice for national authorities to undertake a
      regular assessment as to the systemic importance of the banks in their financial
      systems. The assessment should also be conducted if there are important
      structural changes to the banking system such as, for example, a merger of major
      banks. A national authority’s assessment process and methodology will be
      reviewed by the Committee’s implementation monitoring process.

50.19 It is also desirable that the interval of the assessments not be significantly longer
      than that for G-SIBs (ie one year). For example, a systemically important bank
      could be identified as a G-SIB but also a D-SIB in the same jurisdiction or in other
      host jurisdictions. Alternatively, a G-SIB could drop from the G-SIB list and
      become/continue to be a D-SIB. In order to keep a consistent approach in these
      cases, it would be sensible to have a similar frequency of assessments for the two
      frameworks.


Principle 7: transparency on the methodology
50.20 The assessment process used needs to be clearly articulated and made public so
      as to set up the appropriate incentives for banks to seek to reduce the systemic
      risk they pose to the reference system. This was the key aspect of the G-SIB
      framework where the assessment methodology and the disclosure requirements
      of the Committee and the banks were set out in the G-SIB rules text. By taking
      these measures, the Committee sought to ensure that banks, regulators and
      market participants would be able to understand how the actions of banks could
      affect their systemic importance score and thereby the required magnitude of
      additional loss absorbency. The Committee believes that transparency of the
      assessment process for the D-SIB framework is also important, even if it is likely
      to vary across jurisdictions given differences in frameworks and policy tools used
      to address the systemic importance of banks.




                                 SCO95
                                 Glossary and abbreviations
                                 This lists the abbreviations used in the Basel
                                 Framework.


                                 
A-IRB          Advanced internal ratings-based

ABCP           Asset-backed commercial paper

ADC            Acquisition, development and construction

ALCO           Asset and liability management committee

AMA            Advanced measurement approach

AML            Anti-money-laundering

ARS            Argentine peso

ASA            Alternative standardised approach

ASF            Available stable funding

AT1            Additional Tier 1

AUD            Australian dollar

BCP            Basel Core Principle

BIS            Bank for International Settlements

bp             Basis points

BRL            Brazilian real

CAD            Canadian dollar

CCF            Credit conversion factor

CCP            Central counterparty

CCR            Counterparty credit risk

CDD            Customer due diligence

CDO            Collateralised debt obligation

CDS            Credit default swap

CET1           Common Equity Tier 1

CF             Commodities finance

CFP            Contingency funding plan

CFT            Combating the financing of terrorism

CHF            Swiss franc
CLF            Committed liquidity facility

CM             Clearing member

CNY            Chinese yuan renminbi

CPR            Conditional prepayment rate

CRO            Chief risk officer

CRM            Credit risk mitigation

CSRBB          Credit spread risk in the banking book

CTP            Correlation trading portfolio

CUSIP          Committee on Uniform Security Identification Procedures

CVA            Credit valuation adjustment

D-SIB          Domestic systemically important bank

DAR            Detailed assessment report

DSCR           Debt service coverage ratio

DTA            Deferred tax asset

DTL            Deferred tax liability

DvP            Delivery-versus-payment

EAD            Exposure at default

ECA            Export credit agency

ECAI           External credit assessment institution

ECL            Expected credit loss

EE             Expected exposure

EL             Expected loss

EPC            Engineering and procurement contract

EPE            Expected positive exposure

ESM            European Stability Mechanism

EUR            Euro
Euribor        Euro Interbank Offered Rate

EV             Economic value

EVaR           Economic value-at-risk

EVE            Economic value of equity

F-IRB          Foundation internal ratings-based

FAQ            Frequently asked question

FATF           Financial Action Task Force

FBA            Fall-back approach

FRA            Forward rate agreement

FSAP           Financial Sector Assessment Program

FSB            Financial Stability Board

FX             Foreign exchange

G-SIB          Global systemically important bank

GAAP           Generally accepted accounting practice

GBP            British pound sterling

GDP            Gross domestic product

HKD            Hong Kong dollar

HLA            Higher loss absorbency

HQLA           High-quality liquid assets

HVCRE          High-volatility commercial real estate

IA             Independent amount

IAA            Internal assessment approach

IADI           International Association of Deposit Insurers

ICA            Independent collateral amount

ICAAP          Internal capital adequacy assessment process

IDR            Indonesian rupiah

IFRS           International financial reporting standard
IM             Initial margin

IMF            International Monetary Fund

IMA            Internal models approach

IMM            Internal models method

IMS            Internal measurement systems

INR            Indian rupee

IOSCO          International Organization of Securities Commissions

I/O            Interest-only strips

IPRE           Income-producing real estate

IRB            Internal ratings-based

IRC            Incremental risk capital

IRRBB          Interest rate risk in the banking book

ISDA           International Swaps and Derivatives Association

ISIN           International Securities Identification Number

IT             Information technology

JPY            Japanese yen

JTD            Jump-to-default

KRW            Korean won

LCR            Liquidity Coverage Ratio

LGD            Loss-given-default

LIBOR          London Interbank Offered Rate

LLCR           Loan life coverage ratio

LST            Long settlement transaction

LTA            Look-through approach

LTV            Loan-to-value ratio

LVPS           Large-value payment system
M              Effective maturity

MBA            Mandate-based approach

MDB            Multilateral development bank

MF             Maturity factor

MIS            Management information system

MLV            Mortgage lending value

MNA            Master netting agreement

MPE            Multiple point of entry

MPOR           Margin period of risk

MSR            Mortgage servicing right

MTA            Minimum transfer amount

MTM            Mark-to-market

MXN            Mexican peso

NA             Not applicable

NDB            National development bank

NGR            Net-to-gross ratio

NICA           Net independent collateral amount

NIF            Note issuance facility

NII            Net interest income

NMD            Non-maturity deposit

NSFR           Net stable funding ratio

O&M            Operations and maintenance

OC             Overcollateralisation

OECD           Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development

OF             Object finance

OTC            Over-the-counter

P&L            Profit and loss
PD             Probability of default

PF             Project finance

PFE            Potential future exposure

PONV           Point of non-viability

PSE            Public sector entity

PV             Present value

PVA            Prudential valuation adjustment

QCCP           Qualifying central counterparty

QRRE           Qualifying revolving retail exposures

RC             Replacement cost

RCLF           Restricted-use committed liquidity facility

RMBS           Residential mortgage-backed security

ROSC           Report on the Observance of Standards and Codes

ROU            Right-of-use

RSF            Required stable funding

RUB            Russian ruble

RUF            Revolving underwriting facility

RWA            Risk-weighted assets

S&P            Standard and Poor's

SA             Standardised approach

SA-CCR         Standardised approach for counterparty credit risk

SAR            Saudi Arabian riyal

SEC-SA         Securitisation standardised approach

SEC-ERBA       Securitisation external ratings-based approach

SEC-IRBA       Securitisation internal ratings-based approach

SEK            Swedish krona
SF             Supervisory factor

SFT            Securities financing transaction

SGD            Singapore dollar

SIB            Systemically important bank

SIV            Structured investment vehicle

SL             Specialised lending

SME            Small or medium-sized entity

SPE            Special purpose entity

SPV            Special purpose vehicle

STC            Simple, transparent and comparable

STM            Settled-to-market

sVaR           Stressed value-at-risk

TDRR           Term deposit redemption rate

TLAC           Total loss-absorbing capacity

TRS            Total return swap

TRY            Turkish lira

UCITS          Undertakings for collective investments in transferable securities

UL             Unexpected loss

USD            United States dollar

VaR            Value-at-risk

VM             Variation margin

WAS            Weighted average spread

ZAR            South African rand



                                 CAP
                                 Definition of capital
                                 This standard describes the criteria that bank
                                 capital instruments must meet to be eligible to
                                 satisfy the Basel capital requirements, as well as
                                 necessary regulatory adjustments and
                                 transitional arrangements.



                                 CAP10
                                 Definition of eligible capital
                                 This chapter sets out the eligibility criteria for
                                 regulatory capital. Three categories of
                                 instruments are permitted: Common Equity Tier
                                 1, Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2.


                                Components of capital
10.1   Regulatory capital consists of three categories, each governed by a single set of
       criteria that instruments are required to meet before inclusion in the relevant
       category.

       (1) Common Equity Tier 1 (going-concern capital)

       (2) Additional Tier 1 (going-concern capital)

       (3) Tier 2 Capital (gone-concern capital)

10.2   Total regulatory capital is the sum of Common Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1 and
       Tier 2 capital, net of regulatory adjustments described in CAP30. Tier 1 capital is
       the sum of Common Equity Tier 1 and Additional Tier 1 capital, net of the
       regulatory adjustments in CAP30 applied to those categories.

10.3   It is critical that banks’ risk exposures are backed by a high-quality capital base.
       To this end, the predominant form of Tier 1 capital must be common shares and
       retained earnings.

10.4   Throughout CAP10 the term “bank” is used to mean bank, banking group or
       other entity (eg holding company) whose capital is being measured.

10.5   A bank must seek prior supervisory approval if it intends to include in capital an
       instrument which has its dividends paid in anything other than cash or shares.


Common Equity Tier 1
10.6   Common Equity Tier 1 capital consists of the sum of the following elements:

       (1) Common shares issued by the bank that meet the criteria for classification as
           common shares for regulatory purposes (or the equivalent for non-joint
           stock companies);

       (2) Stock surplus (share premium) resulting from the issue of instruments
           included Common Equity Tier 1;

       (3) Retained earnings;

       (4) Accumulated other comprehensive income and other disclosed reserves;



       (5) Common shares issued by consolidated subsidiaries of the bank and held by
           third parties (ie minority interest) that meet the criteria for inclusion in
           Common Equity Tier 1 capital. See CAP10.20 to CAP10.26 for the relevant
           criteria; and

       (6) Regulatory adjustments applied in the calculation of Common Equity Tier 1.

10.7   Retained earnings and other comprehensive income include interim profit or loss.
       National authorities may consider appropriate audit, verification or review
       procedures. Dividends are removed from Common Equity Tier 1 in accordance
       with applicable accounting standards. The treatment of minority interest and the
       regulatory adjustments applied in the calculation of Common Equity Tier 1 are
       addressed in separate sections.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       Does retained earnings include the fair value changes of Additional
                  Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments?

                  Retained earnings and other reserves, as stated on the balance sheet,
                  are positive components of Common Equity Tier 1. To arrive at
                  Common Equity Tier 1, the positive components are adjusted by the
                  relevant regulatory adjustments set out in CAP30.

                  No regulatory adjustments are applied to fair value changes of
                  Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital instruments that are recognised on
                  the balance sheet, except in respect of changes due to changes in the
                  bank’s own credit risk, as set out in CAP30.15.

                  For example, consider a bank with common equity of 500 and a Tier 2
                  capital instrument that is initially recognised on the balance sheet as a
                  liability with a fair value of 100. If the fair value of this liability on the
                  balance sheet changes from 100 to 105, the consequence will be a
                  decline in common equity on the bank’s balance sheet from 500 to
                  495. If this change in fair value is due to factors other than own credit
                  risk of the bank, eg prevailing changes in interest rates or exchange
                  rates, the Tier 2 capital instrument should be reported in Tier 2 at a
                  valuation of 105 and the common equity should be reported as 495.

       FAQ2       Where associates and joint ventures are accounted for under the equity
                  method, are earnings of such entities eligible for inclusion in the
                  Common Equity Tier 1 capital of the group?


                   Yes, to the extent that they are reflected in retained earnings and other
                   reserves of the group and not excluded by any of the regulatory
                   adjustments set out in CAP30.




Common shares issued by the bank
10.8   For an instrument to be included in Common Equity Tier 1 capital it must meet all
       of the criteria that follow. The vast majority of internationally active banks are
       structured as joint stock companies and for these banks the criteria must be met
       solely with common shares. In the rare cases where banks need to issue non-
       voting common shares as part of Common Equity Tier 1, they must be identical
       to voting common shares of the issuing bank in all respects except the absence
       of voting rights.

       (1) Represents the most subordinated claim in liquidation of the bank.

       (2) Entitled to a claim on the residual assets that is proportional with its share of
           issued capital, after all senior claims have been repaid in liquidation (ie has
           an unlimited and variable claim, not a fixed or capped claim).

       (3) Principal is perpetual and never repaid outside of liquidation (setting aside
           discretionary repurchases or other means of effectively reducing capital in a
           discretionary manner that is allowable under relevant law).

       (4) The bank does nothing to create an expectation at issuance that the
           instrument will be bought back, redeemed or cancelled nor do the statutory
           or contractual terms provide any feature which might give rise to such an
           expectation.

       (5) Distributions are paid out of distributable items (retained earnings included).
           The level of distributions is not in any way tied or linked to the amount paid
           in at issuance and is not subject to a contractual cap (except to the extent
           that a bank is unable to pay distributions that exceed the level of
           distributable items).

       (6) There are no circumstances under which the distributions are obligatory.
           Non payment is therefore not an event of default. Among other things, this
           requirement prohibits features that require the bank to make payments in
           kind.




     (7) Distributions are paid only after all legal and contractual obligations have
         been met and payments on more senior capital instruments have been
         made. This means that there are no preferential distributions, including in
         respect of other elements classified as the highest quality issued capital.

     (8) It is the issued capital that takes the first and proportionately greatest share
         of any losses as they occur. Within the highest quality capital, each
         instrument absorbs losses on a going concern basis proportionately and pari
         passu with all the others.

     (9) The paid-in amount is recognised as equity capital (ie not recognised as a
         liability) for determining balance sheet insolvency.

     (10) The paid-in amount is classified as equity under the relevant accounting
          standards.

     (11) It is directly issued and paid-in and the bank cannot directly or indirectly
          have funded the instrument or the purchase of the instrument.

     (12) The paid-in amount is neither secured nor covered by a guarantee of the
          issuer or related entity or subject to any other arrangement that legally or
          economically enhances the seniority of the claim.

     (13) It is only issued with the approval of the owners of the issuing bank, either
          given directly by the owners or, if permitted by applicable law, given by the
          Board of Directors or by other persons duly authorised by the owners.

     (14) It is clearly and separately disclosed on the bank’s balance sheet.




            Joint stock companies are defined as companies that have issued
                 common shares, irrespective of whether these shares are held privately
                 or publically. These will represent the vast majority of internationally
                 active banks.

               The criteria also apply to non-joint stock companies, such as mutuals,
                 cooperatives or savings institutions, taking into account their specific
                 constitution and legal structure. The application of the criteria should
                 preserve the quality of the instruments by requiring that they are
                 deemed fully equivalent to common shares in terms of their capital
                 quality as regards loss absorption and do not possess features which
                 could cause the condition of the bank to be weakened as a going
                 concern during periods of market stress. Supervisors will exchange
                 information on how they apply the criteria to non-joint stock
                 companies in order to ensure consistent implementation.

               In cases where capital instruments have a permanent writedown
                 feature, this criterion is still deemed to be met by common shares.

               A related entity can include a parent company, a sister company, a
                 subsidiary or any other affiliate. A holding company is a related entity
                 irrespective of whether it forms part of the consolidated banking group.

               The item should be clearly and separately disclosed in the balance
                 sheet published in the bank’s annual report. Where a bank publishes
                 results on a half-yearly or quarterly basis, disclosure should also be
                 made at those times. The requirement applies at the consolidated level;
                 the treatment at an entity level should follow domestic requirements.




     FAQ
     FAQ1      Regarding CAP10.8(5), if a bank does not earn any distributable profit
               within a given period does this mean that the bank is prohibited from
               paying a dividend?

               There are no Basel III requirements that prohibit dividend distributions
               as long as the bank meets the minimum capital ratios to which it is
               subject and does not exceed any of the distribution constraints of the
               capital conservation and countercyclical buffers (extended, as
               applicable, by any global or domestic systemically important bank
               higher loss absorbency capital surcharge). Accordingly, dividends may
               be paid out of reserves available for distribution (including those
               reserves accumulated in prior years) provided that all minimum ratios
               and buffer constraints are observed.

               Distributable items in the criteria for common shares should be
               interpreted with reference to those items which are permitted to be
               distributed according to the relevant jurisdictional requirements,
               including any prohibitions that form part of those requirement.

               For example, consider a jurisdiction in which distributable items consist
               of a company’s retained earnings only and, as such, companies are not
               permitted to pay dividends (ie make distributions) to shareholders if
               the payment would result in negative retained earnings. Given that
               both the payment of dividends on shares reduces retained earnings,
               their declaration should be precluded in this jurisdiction if payment
               would result in (or increase) negative retained earnings.

     FAQ2      Does “paid-in” have to be paid-in with cash?

               Paid-in capital generally refers to capital that has been received with
               finality by the bank, is reliably valued, fully under the bank's control
               and does not directly or indirectly expose the bank to the credit risk of
               the investor. The criteria for inclusion in capital do not specify how an
               instrument must be “paid-in”. Payment of cash to the issuing bank is
               not always applicable, for example, when a bank issues shares as
               payment for the take-over of another company the shares would still
               be considered to be paid-in. However, a bank is required to have prior
               supervisory approval to include in capital an instrument which has not
               been paid-in with cash.

     FAQ3      Does CAP10.8(11) require an exclusion from regulatory capital where a
               bank provides funding to a borrower that purchases the capital
               instruments of the bank where: (a) the bank has full recourse to the
               borrower; and (b) the funding was not provided specifically for the



Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                            52/1626
                   purpose of purchasing the capital of the bank (eg it was provided for
                   the purpose of holding a diversified portfolio of investments)?

                   No. Banks must ensure full compliance with CAP10.8(11) in economic
                   terms irrespective of the specific legal features underpinning the
                   transaction.



Additional Tier 1 capital
10.9   Additional Tier 1 capital consists of the sum of the following elements:

       (1) instruments issued by the bank that meeting the criteria for inclusion in
           Additional Tier 1 capital (and are not included in Common Equity Tier 1);

       (2) stock surplus (share premium) resulting from the issue of instruments
           included in Additional Tier 1 capital;

       (3) instruments issued by consolidated subsidiaries of the bank and held by
           third parties that meet the criteria for inclusion in Additional Tier 1 capital
           and are not included in Common Equity Tier 1 capital. See CAP10.20 to
           CAP10.26 for the relevant criteria; and

       (4) regulatory adjustments applied in the calculation of Additional Tier 1 Capital.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Can subordinated loans be included in regulatory capital?

                   Yes. As long as the subordinated loans meet all the criteria required for
                   Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital, banks can include these items in
                   their regulatory capital.


10.10 The treatment of instruments issued out of consolidated subsidiaries of the bank
      and the regulatory adjustments applied in the calculation of Additional Tier 1
      capital are addressed in separate sections.

10.11 The following criteria must be met or exceeded for an instrument issued by the
      bank to be included in Additional Tier 1 capital.

       (1) Issued and paid-in




     (2) Subordinated to depositors, general creditors and subordinated debt of the
         bank. In the case of an issue by a holding company, the instrument must be
         subordinated to all general creditors.

     (3) Is neither secured nor covered by a guarantee of the issuer or related entity
         or other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of
         the claim vis-à-vis bank creditors

     (4) Is perpetual, ie there is no maturity date and there are no step-ups or other
         incentives to redeem

     (5) May be callable at the initiative of the issuer only after a minimum of five
         years:

         (a) To exercise a call option a bank must receive prior supervisory approval;
             and

         (b) A bank must not do anything which creates an expectation that the call
             will be exercised; and

         (c)   Banks must not exercise a call unless:

               (i)   They replace the called instrument with capital of the same or
                     better quality and the replacement of this capital is done at
                     conditions which are sustainable for the income capacity of the
                     bank; or

               (ii) The bank demonstrates that its capital position is well above the
                    minimum capital requirements after the call option is exercised.

         (d) The use of tax event and regulatory event calls are permitted within the
             first five years of a capital instrument, but supervisors will only permit
             the bank to exercise such a call if in their view the bank was not in a
             position to anticipate the event at issuance.

     (6) Any repayment of principal (eg through repurchase or redemption) must be
         with prior supervisory approval and banks should not assume or create
         market expectations that supervisory approval will be given.




     (7) Dividend/coupon discretion:

         (a) the bank must have full discretion at all times to cancel distributions
             /payments

         (b) cancellation of discretionary payments must not be an event of default



         (c)   banks must have full access to cancelled payments to meet obligations
               as they fall due

         (d) cancellation of distributions/payments must not impose restrictions on
             the bank except in relation to distributions to common stockholders.

     (8) Dividends/coupons must be paid out of distributable items.

     (9) The instrument cannot have a credit-sensitive dividend feature, that is a
         dividend/coupon that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the
         banking organisation's credit standing.

     (10) The instrument cannot contribute to liabilities exceeding assets if such a
          balance sheet test forms part of national insolvency law.

     (11) Instruments classified as liabilities for accounting purposes must have a
          principal loss-absorption mechanism. This must generate Common Equity
          Tier 1 under the relevant accounting standards and the instrument will only
          receive recognition in Additional Tier 1 up to the minimum level of
          Common Equity Tier 1 generated by the loss-absorption mechanism. The
          mechanism must operate through either:

          (a) conversion to common shares at an objective pre-specified trigger
              point of at least 5.125% Common Equity Tier 1; or

          (b) a writedown mechanism which allocates losses to the instrument at a
              pre-specified trigger point of at least 5.125% Common Equity Tier 1.
              The writedown will have the following effects:

                (i)    Reduce the claim of the instrument in liquidation;

                (ii)   Reduce the amount repaid when a call is exercised; and

                (iii) Partially or fully reduce coupon/dividend payments on the
                      instrument.




     (12) The aggregate amount to be written down/converted for all instruments
          classified as liabilities for accounting purposes on breaching the trigger
          level must be at least the amount needed to immediately return the bank's
          Common Equity Tier 1 ratio to the trigger level or, if this is not possible, the
          full principal value of the instruments.

     (13) Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises control
          or significant influence can have purchased the instrument, nor can the
          bank directly or indirectly fund the instrument or the purchase of the
          instrument.

     (14) The instrument cannot have any features that hinder recapitalisation, such
          as provisions that require the issuer to compensate investors if a new
          instrument is issued at a lower price during a specified time frame.

     (15) If the instrument is not issued out of an operating entity or the holding
          company in the consolidated group (eg a special purpose vehicle - "SPV"),
          proceeds must be immediately available without limitation to a single
          operating entity or the holding company in the consolidated group in a
          form which meets or exceeds all of the other criteria for inclusion in
          Additional Tier 1 capital.




     (16) The terms and conditions must have a provision that requires, at the option
          of the relevant authority, the instrument to either be written off or
          converted into common equity upon the occurrence of a trigger event,
          unless the criteria in CAP10.12 are met. Any compensation paid to
          instrument holders as a result of a write-off must be paid immediately in
          the form of common stock (or its equivalent in the case of non-joint stock
          companies) of either the issuing bank or the parent company of the
          consolidated group (including any successor in resolution) and must be
          paid prior to any public sector injection of capital (so that the capital
          provided by the public sector is not diluted). The issuing bank must
          maintain at all times all prior authorisation necessary to immediately issue
          the relevant number of shares specified in the instrument's terms and
          conditions should the trigger event occur. The trigger event:

          (a) is the earlier of:

               (i)   a decision that a write-off, without which the firm would become
                     non-viable, is necessary, as determined by the relevant authority;
                     and

               (ii) the decision to make a public sector injection of capital, or
                    equivalent support, without which the firm would have become
                    non-viable, as determined by the relevant authority; and


          (b) is determined by the jurisdiction in which the capital is being given
              recognition for regulatory purposes. Therefore, where an issuing bank
              is part of a wider banking group and the issuing bank wishes the
              instrument to be included in the consolidated group's capital in
              addition to its solo capital, the terms and conditions must specify an
              additional trigger event. This additional trigger event is the earlier of:

               (i)   a decision that a write-off, without which the firm would become
                     non-viable, is necessary, as determined by the relevant authority
                     in the home jurisdiction; and

               (ii) the decision to make a public sector injection of capital, or
                    equivalent support, in the jurisdiction of the consolidated
                    supervisor, without which the firm receiving the support would
                    have become non-viable, as determined by the relevant authority
                    in that jurisdiction.



Replacement issues can be concurrent with but not after the
                 instrument is called.

     Minimum refers to the regulator’s prescribed minimum requirement,
                 which may be higher than the Basel III Pillar 1 minimum requirement.

    A consequence of full discretion at all times to cancel distributions
                 /payments is that “dividend pushers” are prohibited. An instrument
                 with a dividend pusher obliges the issuing bank to make a dividend
                 /coupon payment on the instrument if it has made a payment on
                 another (typically more junior) capital instrument or share. This
                 obligation is inconsistent with the requirement for full discretion at all
                 times. Furthermore, the term “cancel distributions/payments” means
                 extinguish these payments. It does not permit features that require the
                 bank to make distributions/payments in kind. Banks may not allow
                 investors to convert an Additional Tier 1 instrument to common equity
                 upon non-payment of dividends, as this would also impede the
                 practical ability of the bank to exercise its discretion to cancel
                 payments.

     It should be noted that, in many jurisdictions, distributions on
                 Additional Tier 1 instruments (particularly those classified as liabilities
                 but also, in some cases, on instruments that are equity-accounted) will
                 be reflected as an expense item rather than as a distribution of profit
                 (usually for tax reasons). The precondition of “distributable items” as a
                 prudential criterion has therefore to be understood and applied in such
                 a way that such distributions, even if not in violation of any legislation
                 governing distributions by corporates, should not be allowed by the
                 regulator if the distributable items are not adequate to provide for
                 them.

     An operating entity is an entity set up to conduct business with clients
                 with the intention of earning a profit in its own right.




     FAQ
     FAQ1      Does “paid-in” have to be paid-in with cash?

               Paid-in capital generally refers to capital that has been received with
               finality by the bank, is reliably valued, fully under the bank's control
               and does not directly or indirectly expose the bank to the credit risk of
               the investor. The criteria for inclusion in capital do not specify how an
               instrument must be “paid-in”. Payment of cash to the issuing bank is
               not always applicable, for example, when a bank issues shares as
               payment for the takeover of another company the shares would still be
               considered to be paid-in. However, a bank is required to have prior
               supervisory approval to include in capital an instrument which has not
               been paid-in with cash.

     FAQ2      Where a bank uses a special vehicle to issue capital to investors and
               also provides support to the vehicle (eg by contributing a reserve), does
               the support contravene CAP10.11(3)?

               Yes, the provision of support would constitute enhancement and
               breach CAP10.11(3).

     FAQ3      If a Tier 1 security is structured in such a manner that after the first call
               date the issuer would have to pay withholding taxes assessed on
               interest payments that they did not have to pay before, would this
               constitute an incentive to redeem? It is like a more traditional step-up
               in the sense that the issuers’ interest payments are increasing following
               the first call date; however, the stated interest does not change and the
               interest paid to the investor does not change.

               Yes, it would be considered a step-up.

     FAQ4      Can the Committee give additional guidance on what will be
               considered an incentive to redeem?

               The Committee does not intend to publish an exhaustive list of what is
               considered an incentive to redeem and so banks should seek guidance
               from their national supervisor on specific features and instruments.
               However, the following list provides some examples of what would be
               considered an incentive to redeem:

               - A call option combined with an increase in the credit spread of the
                 instrument if the call is not exercised.

               - A call option combined with a requirement or an investor option to
                 convert the instrument into shares if the call is not exercised.



               - A call option combined with a change in the reference rate where
                 the credit spread over the second reference rate is greater than the
                 initial payment rate less the swap rate (ie the fixed rate paid to the
                 call date to receive the second reference rate). For example, if the
                 initial reference rate is 0.9%, the credit spread over the initial
                 reference rate is 2% (ie the initial payment rate is 2.9%), and the
                 swap rate to the call date is 1.2% a credit spread over the second
                 reference rate greater than 1.7% (2.9-1.2%) would be considered an
                 incentive to redeem.

               Conversion from a fixed rate to a floating rate (or vice versa) in
               combination with a call option without any increase in credit spread
               will not in itself be viewed as an incentive to redeem. However, as
               required by CAP10.11(5), the bank must not do anything that creates
               an expectation that the call will be exercised.

               Banks must not expect supervisors to approve the exercise of a call
               option for the purpose of satisfying investor expectations that a call will
               be exercised.

     FAQ5      An Additional Tier 1 capital instrument must be perpetual, which is
               further clarified as there being no maturity date, step-ups or other
               incentives to redeem. In some jurisdictions, domestic law does not
               allow direct issuance of perpetual debt. If, however, a dated instrument’
               s terms and conditions include an automatic rollover feature, would
               the instrument be eligible for recognition as Additional Tier 1 capital?
               What about instruments with mandatory conversion into common
               shares on a pre-defined date?

               Dated instruments that include automatic rollover features are
               designed to appear as perpetual to the regulator and simultaneously to
               appear as having a maturity to the tax authorities and/or legal system.
               This creates a risk that the automatic rollover could be subject to legal
               challenge and repayment at the maturity date could be enforced. As
               such, instruments with maturity dates and automatic rollover features
               should not be treated as perpetual.

               An instrument may be treated as perpetual if it will mandatorily
               convert to common shares at a pre-defined date and has no original
               maturity date prior to conversion. However, if the mandatory
               conversion feature is combined with a call option (ie the mandatory
               conversion date and the call are simultaneous or near-simultaneous),
               such that the bank can call the instrument to avoid conversion, the
               instrument will be treated as having an incentive to redeem and will
               not be permitted to be included in Additional Tier 1. Note that there               may be other facts and circumstances besides having a call option that
               may constitute an incentive to redeem.

     FAQ6      An instrument is structured with a first call date after 5 years but
               thereafter is callable quarterly at every interest payment due date
               (subject to supervisory approval). The instrument does not have a step-
               up. Does the instrument meet CAP10.11(4) and CAP10.11(5) in terms
               of being perpetual with no incentive to redeem?

               CAP10.11(5) allows an instrument to be called by an issuer after a
               minimum period of 5 years. It does not preclude calling at times after
               that date or preclude multiple dates on which a call may be exercised.
               However, the specification of multiple dates upon which a call might
               be exercised must not be used to create an expectation that the
               instrument will be redeemed at the first call date, as this is prohibited
               by CAP10.11(4).

     FAQ7      An Additional Tier 1 instrument can be redeemed within the first five
               years of issuance only on the occurrence of a tax event or regulatory
               event. Please advise whether: (a) a tax event must relate solely to
               taxation changes that adversely affect the tax treatment of dividend
               and interest payments from the issuer’s perspective; (b) a tax event
               could also include tax changes from the holders’ perspective, with or
               without the issuer seeking to compensate the investors with additional
               payments; and (c) issuers should be allowed to gross up distributions to
               compensate the investors with additional payments, or whether this
               should be regarded as akin to a step up and an incentive to redeem
               (either under a call option related to the “tax event” (if permitted), or
               otherwise when the five year call date is reached).

               A tax event must relate to taxation changes in the jurisdiction of the
               issuer that increase an issuer’s cash outflows to holders of capital
               instruments or adversely affect the tax treatment of dividend, interest
               payments or principal repayments from the issuer’s perspective.

               Any taxation changes that result in an increase in the cost of the
               issuance for the bank may be regarded as a tax event where the
               change in tax law is in the jurisdiction of the issuer and could not be
               anticipated at the issue date of the instrument. For example, where the
               issuer is required by a change in taxation law to withhold or deduct
               amounts otherwise payable to instrument holders, and is also required
               under the terms of the instrument to make additional payments to
               ensure that holders receive the amounts they would otherwise have
               received had no withholding or deduction been required, such a
               change in taxation law may be regarded as a tax event. Any


               redemption on account of such a tax event will be subject to all of the
               conditions applicable to early redemptions within the jurisdiction. In
               the example, the contractual additional payments required to make
               investors whole for withholding taxes or deductions, in effect, represent
               the adverse impact of the tax change on the issuer.

     FAQ8      Can the Basel Committee given an example of an action that would be
               considered to create an expectation that a call will be exercised?

               If a bank were to call a capital instrument and replace it with an
               instrument that is more costly (eg has a higher credit spread) this
               might create an expectation that the bank will exercise calls on its
               other capital instruments. As a consequence banks should not expect
               their supervisors to permit them to call an instrument if the banks
               intends to replace it with an instrument issued at a higher credit spread.

     FAQ9      Are dividend stopper arrangements acceptable (eg features that stop
               the bank making a dividend payment on its common shares if a
               dividend/coupon is not paid on its Additional Tier 1 instruments)? Are
               dividend stopper arrangements acceptable if they stop dividend
               /coupon payments on other Tier 1 instruments in addition to dividends
               on common shares?

               Dividend stopper arrangements that stop dividend payments on
               common shares are not prohibited by the Basel standards.
               Furthermore, dividend stopper arrangements that stop dividend
               payments on other Additional Tier 1 instruments are not prohibited.
               However, stoppers must not impede the full discretion that a bank
               must have at all times to cancel distributions/payments on the
               Additional Tier 1 instrument, nor must they act in a way that could
               hinder the recapitalisation of the bank (see CAP10.11(14)). For
               example, it would not be permitted for a stopper on an Additional Tier
               1 instrument to:

               - attempt to stop payment on another instrument where the
                 payments on this other instrument were not also fully discretionary;

               - prevent distributions to shareholders for a period that extends
                 beyond the point in time that dividends/coupons on the Additional
                 Tier 1 instrument are resumed; or

               - impede the normal operation of the bank or any restructuring
                 activity (including acquisitions/disposals).


               A stopper may act to prohibit actions that are equivalent to the
               payment of a dividend, such as the bank undertaking discretionary
               share buybacks.


     FAQ10     If the instrument provides for an optional dividend to be paid, with
               prior supervisory approval, equal to the aggregate unpaid amount of
               any unpaid dividends, would it be considered as meeting CAP10.11(7)
               (a)? What if the optional dividend is not specifically linked to the
               unpaid dividends, but structured as a bonus to reward investors in
               good times?

               No, this contravenes CAP10.11(7) which requires the bank to
               extinguish dividend/coupon payments. Any structuring as a bonus
               payment to make up for unpaid dividends is also prohibited.

     FAQ11     Is the term “distributable items” in CAP10.11(8) intended to include
               “retained earnings”, as is the case in CAP10.8(5) for common shares? If
               yes, then how would this requirement work in the case of an Additional
               Tier 1 instrument classified as an accounting liability?

               Distributable items in the criteria for common shares and Additional
               Tier 1 should be interpreted with reference to those items which are
               permitted to be distributed according to the relevant jurisdictional
               requirements, including any prohibitions that form part of those
               requirement.

               For example, consider a jurisdiction in which distributable items consist
               of a company’s retained earnings only and, as such, companies are not
               permitted to pay dividends (ie make distributions) to shareholders if
               the payment would result in negative retained earnings. Given that
               both the payment of dividends and coupons on shares / Additional Tier
               1 instruments reduces retained earnings, their declaration (in the case
               of dividends) or payment (in the case of coupons) should be precluded
               in this jurisdiction if payment would result in (or increase) negative
               retained earnings.

               It should be noted that in many jurisdictions distributions on Additional
               Tier 1 instruments (particularly those classified as liabilities but also, in
               some cases, on instruments which are equity accounted) will be
               reflected as an expense item rather than as a distribution of profit
               (usually for tax reasons). The precondition of “distributable items” as a
               prudential criterion has therefore to be understood and applied in such
               a way that such distributions even if not in violation of any legislation
               governing distributions by corporates, should not be allowed by the               regulator if the distributable items are not adequate to provide for
               them.

     FAQ12     Can the dividend/coupon rate be based on movements in a market
               index? Is resetting of the margin permitted at all? Does CAP10.11(9)
               prevent the use of a reference rate for which the bank is a reference
               entity (eg the London Interbank Offered Rate)?

               The aim of CAP10.11(9) is to prohibit the inclusion of instruments in
               Additional Tier 1 where the credit spread of the instrument will
               increase as the credit standing of the bank decreases. Banks may use a
               broad index as a reference rate in which the issuing bank is a reference
               entity, however, the reference rate should not exhibit significant
               correlation with the bank’s credit standing. If a bank plans to issue
               capital instruments where the margin is linked to a broad index in
               which the bank is a reference entity, the bank should ensure that the
               dividend/coupon is not credit sensitive. National supervisors may
               provide guidance on the reference rates that are permitted in their
               jurisdictions or may disallow inclusion of an instrument in regulatory
               capital if they deem the reference rate to be credit sensitive.

     FAQ13     Is CAP10.11(10) irrelevant if national insolvency law does not include
               an assets exceeding liabilities test?

               Yes, it is irrelevant where liabilities exceeding assets does not form part
               of the insolvency test under the national insolvency law that applies to
               the issuing bank. However, if a branch wants to issue an instrument in
               a foreign jurisdiction where insolvency law is different from the
               jurisdiction where the parent bank is based, the issue documentation
               must specify that the insolvency law in the parent bank’s jurisdiction
               will apply.

     FAQ14     If a related party of the bank purchases the capital instrument but
               third-party investors bear all the risks and rewards associated with the
               instrument and there is no counterparty risk (eg a fund manager or
               insurance subsidiary invests for the benefit of fund investors or
               insurance policyholders), does this contravene CAP10.11(13)?

               The intention of the criterion is to prohibit the inclusion of instruments
               in capital in cases where the bank retains any of the risk of the
               instruments. The criterion is not contravened if the third-party investors
               bear all of the risks.

     FAQ15     Does CAP10.11(13) require an exclusion from regulatory capital where
               a bank provides funding to a borrower that purchases the capital               instruments of the bank where: (a) the bank has full recourse to the
               borrower; and (b) the funding was not provided specifically for the
               purpose of purchasing the capital of the bank (eg it was provided for
               the purpose of holding a diversified portfolio of investments)?

               No. Banks must ensure full compliance with CAP10.11(13) in economic
               terms irrespective of the specific legal features underpinning the
               transaction.

     FAQ16     Is it correct to assume that regulators are to look at the form of
               instrument issued to the SPV as well as instruments issued by the SPV
               to end investors?

               Yes, capital instruments issued to the SPV have to meet fully all the
               eligibility criteria as if the SPV itself was an end investor – ie the bank
               cannot issue capital of a lower quality (eg Tier 2) to an SPV and have
               an SPV issue higher quality capital to third-party investors to receive
               recognition as higher quality capital.

     FAQ17     Can Tier 2 capital issued by an SPV be upstreamed as Tier 1 capital for
               the consolidated group?

               If an SPV issues Tier 2 capital to investors and upstreams the proceeds
               by investing in Tier 1 issued by an operating entity or the holding
               company of the group, the transaction will be classified as Tier 2
               capital for the consolidated group. Furthermore, the instrument issued
               by the operating entity or holding company must also be classified as
               Tier 2 for all other requirements that apply to that entity (eg solo or
               sub-consolidated capital requirements and disclosure requirements).

     FAQ18     Regarding CAP10.11(16), consider a bank that issues capital out of a
               foreign subsidiary, and wishes to use such capital to meet both the solo
               requirements of the foreign subsidiary and include the capital in the
               consolidated capital of the group. Is it correct that the relevant
               authority in jurisdiction of the consolidated supervisor must have the
               power to trigger write-down / conversion of the instrument in addition
               to the relevant authority in the jurisdiction of the foreign subsidiary?

               Yes, this is correct.

     FAQ19     To ensure that the scope of application of the non-viability trigger is
               exercised consistently across jurisdictions does the Basel Committee
               intend to issue any further guidance on what constitutes the point of
               non-viability?

               Banks should seek advice from their relevant national authority if they
               have questions about national implementation.

     FAQ20     How should conversion at the point of non-viability operate for issues
               out of SPVs?

               The write-off of the instruments issued from the SPV to end investors
               should mirror the write-off of the capital issued from the operating
               entity or holding company to the SPV. Banks should discuss whether
               the specific arrangements of each instrument meet this broad concept
               with their relevant national authority.

     FAQ21     Assuming compliance with all relevant legal conditions that may exist
               can the compensation upon the point of non-viability trigger be paid in
               the form of common shares of the holding company of the bank?

               Yes, national authorities may allow common shares paid as
               compensation to be those of the bank’s holding company. This is
               permitted because neither the issuance of shares of the bank nor the
               issuance of shares of the holding company affect the level of common
               equity created at the bank when the liability represented by the capital
               instruments is written off. National authorities may require that banks
               that intend to do this seek the relevant authority’s approval before the
               issuance of such capital instruments.

     FAQ22     While CAP10.11(11) requires either writedown or conversion to equity
               of the Additional Tier 1 instrument (accounted for as a liability), the
               non-viability trigger (ie gone-concern trigger for all non-common
               equity Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments) in CAP10.11(16) requires either
               write-off or conversion to equity. Did the Basel Committee intend to
               differentiate the loss absorption mechanism between the writedown
               and write-off?

               Additional Tier 1 instruments accounted for as liabilities are required to
               meet both the requirements for the point of non-viability and the
               principal loss-absorbency requirements in CAP10.11(11).

               To meet the point-of-non-viability requirements, the instrument needs
               to be capable of being permanently written off or converted to
               common shares at the trigger event. Temporary writedown
               mechanisms cannot meet this requirement.



               Regarding the writedown or conversion requirements for Additional
               Tier 1 instruments accounted for as liabilities, a temporary writedown
               mechanism is only permitted if it meets the conditions in CAP10.11(11)
               and CAP10.11(12).


     FAQ23     A deferred tax liability (DTL) could arise when a bank writes down or
               writes-off an instrument as a result of the principal loss-absorption or
               the non-viability requirement being triggered. Should the amount
               recognised as regulatory capital, both at the point of issuance and
               during the life of the instrument, be net of potential deferred tax
               liabilities that could arise when the instrument is written down or
               written off?

               Yes. The amount recognised as regulatory capital should be adjusted to
               account for any DTLs or tax payment resulting from the conversion or
               writedown or any other foreseeable tax liability or tax payment related
               to the instruments due at the moment of conversion or writedown or
               write-off. The adjustment should be made from the point of issuance.
               Institutions shall assess and justify the amount of any foreseeable tax
               liabilities or tax payments to the satisfaction of their supervisory
               authorities, taking into account in particular the local tax treatment
               and the structure of the group.

               Where netting of DTLs against deferred tax assets is allowed, banks
               should seek guidance from supervisory authorities on the treatment of
               DTLs associated with the conversion, writedown or write-off of
               regulatory capital instrument.

     FAQ24     Regarding the reform of benchmark reference rates, will amendments
               to the contractual terms of capital instruments that are undertaken to
               prepare for the transition to the new benchmark rates result in a
               reassessment of their eligibility as regulatory capital?

               Amendments to the contractual terms of capital instruments could
               potentially trigger a reassessment of their eligibility as regulatory
               capital in some jurisdictions. A reassessment could result in an existing
               capital instrument being treated as a new instrument. This in turn
               could result in breaching the minimum maturity and call date
               requirements. Similarly, existing capital instruments issued under Basel
               II that are being phased out could also fail to meet eligibility
               requirements if they are treated as new instruments. The Committee
               confirms that amendments to capital instruments pursued solely for
               the purpose of implementing benchmark rate reforms will not result in
               them being treated as new instruments for the purpose of assessing the                   minimum maturity and call date requirements or affect their eligibility
                  for transitional arrangements of Basel III.


10.12 The terms and conditions of Additional Tier 1 instruments must include a write-
      off or conversion provision activated at the option of the relevant authority upon
      the occurrence of the trigger event (as described in CAP10.11(16)) unless the
      following criteria are met. The same criteria apply in the case of the requirement
      for a write-off or conversion provision in Tier 2 instruments (as described in
      CAP10.16(10)):

       (1) the governing jurisdiction of the bank has in place laws that:

           (a) require such instruments to be written off upon such event, or

           (b) otherwise require such instruments to fully absorb losses before tax
               payers are exposed to loss; and

       (2) it is disclosed by the relevant regulator and by the issuing bank, in issuance
           documents issued on or after 1 January 2013, that such instruments are
           subject to loss under CAP10.12(1).


       FAQ
       FAQ1       Does the option for loss absorbency at the point of non-viability to be
                  implemented through statutory means release banks from the
                  requirement of CAP10.11(11) to have a contractual principal loss
                  absorption mechanism for Tier 1 instrument classified as liabilities?

                  No, this option does not release banks from any of the requirements in
                  CAP.

       FAQ2       What should a bank do if it is unsure whether the governing
                  jurisdiction has the laws in place as set out in CAP10.12?

                  It should seek guidance from the relevant national authority in its
                  jurisdiction.

       FAQ3       CAP10.11(16) and CAP10.12 describe two scenarios. In the latter, the
                  governing jurisdiction of the bank has sufficient powers to write down
                  Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments. In the former, these powers
                  are not deemed sufficient and contractual provisions (that amount to
                  an embedded option that is to be triggered by the relevant authority)
                  are required in these instruments. The ability of the relevant authority
                   to exercise an embedded option in a regulatory instrument also
                   requires that they have the authority to do so. What is the difference
                   between the powers required in first and second scenarios?

                   In both cases the relevant authority must have the power to write
                   down or convert the instrument. In the latter scenario the authorities
                   have the statutory power to enact the conversion/writedown
                   irrespective of the terms and conditions of the instrument. In the
                   former scenario the authorities have the power to enact the conversion
                   /writedown in accordance with the terms and conditions of the
                   instrument. In both cases, the fact that the instrument is subject to loss
                   as a result of the relevant authority exercising such power must be
                   made clear. In the latter scenario, there needs to be disclosure by the
                   relevant regulator and by the issuing bank, in issuance documents
                   going forward. In the former scenario, this needs to be specified in the
                   terms and conditions of the instrument.


10.13 Stock surplus (ie share premium) that is not eligible for inclusion in Common
      Equity Tier 1, will only be permitted to be included in Additional Tier 1 capital if
      the shares giving rise to the stock surplus are permitted to be included in
      Additional Tier 1 capital.


Tier 2 capital
10.14 Tier 2 capital consists of the sum of the following elements:

       (1) instruments issued by the bank that meet the criteria for inclusion in Tier 2
           capital (and are not included in Tier 1 capital);

       (2) stock surplus (share premium) resulting from the issue of instruments
           included in Tier 2 capital;

       (3) instruments issued by consolidated subsidiaries of the bank and held by
           third parties that meet the criteria for inclusion in Tier 2 capital and are not
           included in Tier 1 capital. See CAP10.20 to CAP10.26 for the relevant criteria;

       (4) certain loan-loss provisions as specified in CAP10.18 and CAP10.19; and

       (5) regulatory adjustments applied in the calculation of Tier 2 capital.

       FAQ
       FAQ1        Can subordinated loans be included in regulatory capital?

                   Yes. As long as the subordinated loans meet all the criteria required for
                   Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital, banks can include these items in
                   their regulatory capital.


10.15 The treatment of instruments issued out of consolidated subsidiaries of the bank
      and the regulatory adjustments applied in the calculation of Tier 2 capital are
      addressed in separate sections.

10.16 The objective of Tier 2 is to provide loss absorption on a gone-concern basis.
      Based on this objective, the following criteria must be met or exceeded for an
      instrument to be included in Tier 2 capital.

       (1) Issued and paid-in

       (2) Subordinated to depositors and general creditors of the bank. In the case of
           an issue by a holding company, the instrument must be subordinated to all
           general creditors.

       (3) Is neither secured nor covered by a guarantee of the issuer or related entity
           or other arrangement that legally or economically enhances the seniority of
           the claim vis-à-vis depositors and general bank creditors

       (4) Maturity:

           (a) Minimum original maturity of at least five years

           (b) Recognition in regulatory capital in the remaining five years before
               maturity will be amortised on a straight line basis.

           (c)   There are no step-ups or other incentives to redeem.

     (5) May be callable at the initiative of the issuer only after a minimum of five
         years:

         (a) To exercise a call option a bank must receive prior supervisory approval;

         (b) A bank must not do anything that creates an expectation that the call
             will be exercised; and

         (c)   Banks must not exercise a call unless:




               (i)   they replace the called instrument with capital of the same or better
                     quality and the replacement of this capital is done at conditions
                     which are sustainable for the income capacity of the bank; or

               (ii) the bank demonstrates that its capital position is well above the
                    minimum capital requirements after the call option is exercised.

         (d) The use of tax event and regulatory event calls are permitted within the
             first five years of a capital instrument, but supervisors will only permit
             the bank to exercise such a call if in their view the bank was not in a
             position to anticipate the event at issuance.

     (6) The investor must have no rights to accelerate the repayment of future
         scheduled payments (coupon or principal), except in bankruptcy and
         liquidation.

     (7) The instrument cannot have a credit-sensitive dividend feature, that is a
         dividend/coupon that is reset periodically based in whole or in part on the
         banking organisation's credit standing.

     (8) Neither the bank nor a related party over which the bank exercises control or
         significant influence can have purchased the instrument, nor can the bank
         directly or indirectly have funded the instrument or the purchase of the
         instrument.

     (9) If the instrument is not issued out of an operating entity or the holding
         company in the consolidated group (eg an SPV), proceeds must be
         immediately available without limitation to a single operating entity or the
         holding company in the consolidated group in a form which meets or
         exceeds all of the other criteria for inclusion in Tier 2 capital.
     (10) The terms and conditions must have a provision that requires, at the option
          of the relevant authority, the instrument to either be written off or
          converted into common equity upon the occurrence of a trigger event,
          unless the laws of the governing jurisdiction meet the criteria in CAP10.12.
          Any compensation paid to instrument holders as a result of a write-off must
          be paid immediately in the form of common stock (or its equivalent in the
          case of non-joint stock companies) of either the issuing bank or the parent
          company of the consolidated group (including any successor in resolution)
          and must be paid prior to any public sector injection of capital (so that the
          capital provided by the public sector is not diluted. The issuing bank must
          maintain at all times all prior authorisation necessary to immediately issue
          the relevant number of shares specified in the instrument's terms and
          conditions should the trigger event occur. The trigger event:

          (a) is the earlier of:

               (i)   a decision that a write-off, without which the firm would become
                     non-viable, is necessary, as determined by the relevant authority;
                     and

               (ii) the decision to make a public sector injection of capital, or
                    equivalent support, without which the firm would have become
                    non-viable, as determined by the relevant authority; and

          (b) is determined by the jurisdiction in which the capital is being given
              recognition for regulatory purposes. Therefore, where an issuing bank
              is part of a wider banking group and the issuing bank wishes the
              instrument to be included in the consolidated group's capital in
              addition to its solo capital, the terms and conditions must specify an
              additional trigger event. This additional trigger event is the earlier of:

               (i)   a decision that a write-off, without which the firm would become
                     non-viable, is necessary, as determined by the relevant authority
                     in the home jurisdiction; and

               (ii) the decision to make a public sector injection of capital, or
                    equivalent support, in the jurisdiction of the consolidated
                    supervisor, without which the firm receiving the support would
                    have become non-viable, as determined by the relevant authority
                    in that jurisdiction.


  An option to call the instrument after five years but prior to the start of
                 the amortisation period will not be viewed as an incentive to redeem as
                 long as the bank does not do anything that creates an expectation that
                 the call will be exercised at this point.

     Replacement issues can be concurrent with but not after the
                 instrument is called.

    Minimum refers to the regulator’s prescribed minimum requirement,
                 which may be higher than the Basel III Pillar 1 minimum requirement.

    An operating entity is an entity set up to conduct business with clients
                 with the intention of earning a profit in its own right.


     FAQ
     FAQ1        Does “paid-in” have to be paid-in with cash?

                 Paid-in capital generally refers to capital that has been received with
                 finality by the bank, is reliably valued, fully under the bank's control
                 and does not directly or indirectly expose the bank to the credit risk of
                 the investor. The criteria for inclusion in capital do not specify how an
                 instrument must be “paid-in”. Payment of cash to the issuing bank is
                 not always applicable, for example, when a bank issues shares as
                 payment for the takeover of another company the shares would still be
                 considered to be paid-in. However, a bank is required to have prior
                 supervisory approval to include in capital an instrument which has not
                 been paid-in with cash.

     FAQ2        If a related party of the bank purchases the capital instrument but
                 third-party investors bear all the risks and rewards associated with the
                 instrument and there is no counterparty risk (eg a fund manager or
                 insurance subsidiary invests for the benefit of fund investors or
                 insurance policyholders), does this contravene CAP10.16(8)?

                 The intention of the criterion is to prohibit the inclusion of instruments
                 in capital in cases where the bank retains any of the risk of the
                 instruments. The criterion is not contravened if the third-party investors
                 bear all of the risks.

     FAQ3        Does CAP10.16(8) require an exclusion from regulatory capital where a
                 bank provides funding to a borrower that purchases the capital
                 instruments of the bank where: (a) the bank has full recourse to the
                 borrower; and (b) the funding was not provided specifically for the               purpose of purchasing the capital of the bank (eg it was provided for
               the purpose of holding a diversified portfolio of investments)?

               No. Banks must ensure full compliance with CAP10.16(8) in economic
               terms irrespective of the specific legal features underpinning the
               transaction.

     FAQ4      Can Tier 2 capital issued by an SPV can be upstreamed as Tier 1
               capital for the consolidated group?

               If an SPV issues Tier 2 capital to investors and upstreams the proceeds
               by investing in Tier 1 issued by an operating entity or the holding
               company of the group, the transaction will be classified as Tier 2
               capital for the consolidated group. Furthermore, the instrument issued
               by the operating entity or holding company must also be classified as
               Tier 2 for all other requirements that apply to that entity (eg solo or
               sub-consolidated capital requirements and disclosure requirements).

     FAQ5      Consider a bank that issues capital out of a foreign subsidiary, and
               wishes to use such capital to meet both the solo requirements of the
               foreign subsidiary and include the capital in the consolidated capital of
               the group. Is it correct that the relevant authority in jurisdiction of the
               consolidated supervisor must have the power to trigger writedown /
               conversion of the instrument in addition to the relevant authority in
               the jurisdiction of the foreign subsidiary?

               Yes, this is correct.

     FAQ6      To ensure that the scope of application of the non-viability trigger is
               exercised consistently across jurisdictions does the Basel Committee
               intend to issue any further guidance on what constitutes the point of
               non-viability?

               Banks should seek advice from their relevant national authority if they
               have questions about national implementation.

     FAQ7      How should conversion at the point of non-viability operate for issues
               out of SPVs?

               The write-off of the instruments issued from the SPV to end investors
               should mirror the write-off of the capital issued from the operating
               entity or holding company to the SPV. Banks should discuss whether
               the specific arrangements of each instrument meet this broad concept
               with their relevant national authority.
     FAQ8      Assuming compliance with all relevant legal conditions that may exist
               can the compensation upon the point of non-viability trigger be paid in
               the form of common shares of the holding company of the bank?

               Yes, national authorities may allow common shares paid as
               compensation to be those of the bank’s holding company. This is
               permitted because neither the issuance of shares of the bank nor the
               issuance of shares of the holding company affect the level of common
               equity created at the bank when the liability represented by the capital
               instruments is written off. National authorities may require that banks
               that intend to do this seek the relevant authority’s approval before the
               issuance of such capital instruments.

     FAQ9      A deferred tax liability (DTL) could arise when a bank writes down or
               writes off an instrument as a result of the principal loss absorption or
               the non-viability requirement being triggered. Should the amount
               recognised as regulatory capital, both at the point of issuance and
               during the life of the instrument, be net of potential deferred tax
               liabilities that could arise when the instrument is written down or
               written off?

               Yes. The amount recognised as regulatory capital should be adjusted to
               account for any DTLs or tax payment resulting from the conversion or
               writedown or any other foreseeable tax liability or tax payment related
               to the instruments due at the moment of conversion or writedown or
               write-off. The adjustment should be made from the point of issuance.
               Institutions shall assess and justify the amount of any foreseeable tax
               liabilities or tax payments to the satisfaction of their supervisory
               authorities, taking into account in particular the local tax treatment
               and the structure of the group.

               Where netting of DTLs against deferred tax assets is allowed, banks
               should seek guidance from supervisory authorities on the treatment of
               DTLs associated with the conversion, writedown or write-off of
               regulatory capital instrument.

     FAQ10     Regarding the reform of benchmark reference rates, will amendments
               to the contractual terms of capital instruments that are undertaken to
               prepare for the transition to the new benchmark rates result in a
               reassessment of their eligibility as regulatory capital?

               Amendments to the contractual terms of capital instruments could
               potentially trigger a reassessment of their eligibility as regulatory
               capital in some jurisdictions. A reassessment could result in an existing
               capital instrument being treated as a new instrument. This in turn                   could result in breaching the minimum maturity and call date
                   requirements. Similarly, existing capital instruments issued under Basel
                   II that are being phased out could also fail to meet eligibility
                   requirements if they are treated as new instruments. The Committee
                   confirms that amendments to capital instruments pursued solely for
                   the purpose of implementing benchmark rate reforms will not result in
                   them being treated as new instruments for the purpose of assessing the
                   minimum maturity and call date requirements or affect their eligibility
                   for transitional arrangements of Basel III.


10.17 Stock surplus (ie share premium) that is not eligible for inclusion in Tier 1 will only
      be permitted to be included in Tier 2 capital if the shares giving rise to the stock
      surplus are permitted to be included in Tier 2 capital.

10.18 Under the standardised approach to credit risk, provisions or loan-loss reserves
      held against future, presently unidentified losses are freely available to meet
      losses which subsequently materialise and therefore qualify for inclusion within
      Tier 2. Provisions ascribed to identified deterioration of particular assets or known
      liabilities, whether individual or grouped, should be excluded. Furthermore,
      general provisions/general loan-loss reserves eligible for inclusion in Tier 2,
      measured gross of tax effects, will be limited to a maximum of 1.25 percentage
      points of credit risk-weighted assets (RWA) calculated under the standardised
      approach.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Should credit valuation adjustment (CVA) RWA and RWA for exposures
                   to central counterparties (CCPs) be included in the computation base
                   to arrive at the amount of provisions eligible for inclusion in Tier 2
                   capital?

                   CCP RWA should be included in the calculation base used to determine
                   the cap on eligible provisions in Tier 2.

                   Historically, the understanding is that RWA are comprised of the sum
                   of market capital charges multiplied by 12.5 plus credit RWA. Since
                   CCP RWA are not currently included in the market risk framework, by
                   default they are included in credit RWA for purposes of calculating the
                   base to arrive at the amount of provisions eligible for inclusion in Tier
                   2 capital. On the other hand, CVA RWA are primarily market-driven
                   risks, so should not be included the calculation base.
10.19
        Under the internal ratings based approach, where the total expected loss amount
        is less than total eligible provisions (measured gross of tax effects), as explained
        in CRE35, banks may recognise the difference in Tier 2 capital up to a maximum
        of 0.6% of credit risk-weighted assets calculated under the internal ratings-based
        approach. At national discretion, a limit lower than 0.6% may be applied.


Minority interest (ie non-controlling interest) and other capital issued
out of consolidated subsidiaries that is held by third parties
10.20 Minority interest arising from the issue of common shares by a fully consolidated
      subsidiary of the bank may receive recognition in Common Equity Tier 1 only if:

        (1) the instrument giving rise to the minority interest would, if issued by the
            bank, meet all of the criteria for classification as common shares for
            regulatory capital purposes; and

        (2) the subsidiary that issued the instrument is itself a bank.15 16


        Footnotes
        15          For the purposes of this paragraph, any institution that is subject to the
                    same minimum prudential standards and level of supervision as a
                    bank may be considered to be a bank.

        16          Minority interest in a subsidiary that is a bank is strictly excluded from
                    the parent bank’s common equity if the parent bank or affiliate has
                    entered into any arrangements to fund directly or indirectly minority
                    investment in the subsidiary whether through an SPV or through
                    another vehicle or arrangement. The treatment outlined above, thus, is
                    strictly available where all minority investments in the bank subsidiary
                    solely represent genuine third party common equity contributions to
                    the subsidiary.


10.21 The amount of minority interest meeting the criteria above that will be
      recognised in consolidated Common Equity Tier 1 will be calculated as follows:

        (1) Total minority interest meeting the two criteria above minus the amount of
            the surplus Common Equity Tier 1 of the subsidiary attributable to the
            minority shareholders.


     (2) Surplus Common Equity Tier 1 of the subsidiary is calculated as the Common
         Equity Tier 1 of the subsidiary minus the lower of:

         (a) the minimum Common Equity Tier 1 requirement of the subsidiary plus
             the capital conservation buffer (ie 7.0% of consolidated RWA); and

         (b) the portion of the consolidated minimum Common Equity Tier 1
             requirement plus the capital conservation buffer (ie 7.0% of
             consolidated RWA) that relates to the subsidiary.

     (3) The amount of the surplus Common Equity Tier 1 that is attributable to the
         minority shareholders is calculated by multiplying the surplus Common
         Equity Tier 1 by the percentage of Common Equity Tier 1 that is held by
         minority shareholders.


     FAQ
     FAQ1       Does minority interest (ie non-controlling interest) include the third
                parties’ interest in the retained earnings and reserves of the
                consolidated subsidiaries?

                Yes. The Common Equity Tier 1 in the illustrative example in CAP99
                should be read to include issued common shares plus retained earnings
                and reserves in Bank S.

     FAQ2       Regarding the treatment of capital issued out of subsidiaries, how
                should the surplus capital be calculated if the subsidiary is not
                regulated on a stand-alone basis but is still subject to consolidated
                supervision?

                For capital issued by a consolidated subsidiary of a group to third
                parties to be eligible for inclusion in the consolidated capital of the
                banking group, CAP10.21 to CAP10.26 requires the minimum capital
                requirements and definition of capital to be calculated for the
                subsidiary irrespective of whether the subsidiary is regulated on a
                stand-alone basis. In addition the contribution of this subsidiary to the
                consolidated capital requirement of the group (ie excluding the impact
                of intragroup exposures) must be calculated. All calculations must be
                undertaken in respect of the subsidiary on a sub-consolidated basis (ie
                the subsidiary must consolidate all of its subsidiaries that are also
                included in the wider consolidated group). If this is considered too
                operationally burdensome the bank may elect to give no recognition in
                consolidated capital of the group to the capital issued by the subsidiary
                to third parties. Finally, as set out in CAP10.20, it should be noted that
                minority interest is only permitted to be included in Common Equity
                   Tier 1 if: (1) the instrument would, if issued by the bank, meet all of the
                   criteria for classification as common shares for regulatory purposes;
                   and (2) the subsidiary that issued the instrument is itself a bank. The
                   definition of a bank for this purpose is any institution that is subject to
                   the same minimum prudential standards and level of supervision as a
                   bank as mentioned in CAP10 (Footnote 15).


10.22 Tier 1 capital instruments issued by a fully consolidated subsidiary of the bank,
      whether wholly or partly owned, to third-party investors (including amounts
      under CAP10.21) may receive recognition in Tier 1 capital only if the instruments
      would, if issued by the bank, meet all of the criteria for classification as Tier 1
      capital.

10.23 The amount of this capital that will be recognised in Tier 1 will be calculated as
      follows:

       (1) Total Tier 1 of the subsidiary issued to third parties minus the amount of the
           surplus Tier 1 of the subsidiary attributable to the third-party investors.

       (2) Surplus Tier 1 of the subsidiary is calculated as the Tier 1 of the subsidiary
           minus the lower of:

            (a) the minimum Tier 1 requirement of the subsidiary plus the capital
                conservation buffer (ie 8.5% of RWA); and

            (b) the portion of the consolidated minimum Tier 1 requirement plus the
                capital conservation buffer (ie 8.5% of consolidated RWA) that relates to
                the subsidiary.

       (3) The amount of the surplus Tier 1 that is attributable to the third party
           investors is calculated by multiplying the surplus Tier 1 by the percentage of
           Tier 1 that is held by third-party investors.

       (4) The amount of this Tier 1 capital that will be recognised in Additional Tier 1
           will exclude amounts recognised in Common Equity Tier 1 under CAP10.21.

       FAQ
       FAQ1        Regarding the treatment of capital issued out of subsidiaries, how
                   should the surplus capital be calculated if the subsidiary is not
                   regulated on a stand alone basis but is still subject to consolidated
                   supervision?

                   For capital issued by a consolidated subsidiary of a group to third
                   parties to be eligible for inclusion in the consolidated capital of the
                   banking group, CAP10.21 to CAP10.26 requires the minimum capital
                   requirements and definition of capital to be calculated for the
                   subsidiary irrespective of whether the subsidiary is regulated on a
                   stand alone basis. In addition the contribution of this subsidiary to the
                   consolidated capital requirement of the group (ie excluding the impact
                   of intra-group exposures) must be calculated. All calculations must be
                   undertaken in respect of the subsidiary on a sub-consolidated basis (ie
                   the subsidiary must consolidate all of its subsidiaries that are also
                   included in the wider consolidated group). If this is considered too
                   operationally burdensome the bank may elect to give no recognition in
                   consolidated capital of the group to the capital issued by the subsidiary
                   to third parties. Finally, as set out in CAP10.20, it should be noted that
                   minority interest is only permitted to be included in Common Equity
                   Tier 1 if: (1) the instrument would, if issued by the bank, meet all of the
                   criteria for classification as common shares for regulatory purposes;
                   and (2) the subsidiary that issued the instrument is itself a bank. The
                   definition of a bank for this purpose is any institution that is subject to
                   the same minimum prudential standards and level of supervision as a
                   bank as mentioned in CAP10 (Footnote 15).


10.24 Total capital instruments (ie Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital instruments) issued by a fully
      consolidated subsidiary of the bank, whether wholly or partly owned, to third-
      party investors (including amounts under CAP10.21 to CAP10.23) may receive
      recognition in Total Capital only if the instruments would, if issued by the bank,
      meet all of the criteria for classification as Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital.

10.25 The amount of this capital that will be recognised in consolidated Total Capital
      will be calculated as follows:

       (1) Total capital instruments of the subsidiary issued to third parties minus the
           amount of the surplus Total Capital of the subsidiary attributable to the third-
           party investors.

     (2) Surplus Total Capital of the subsidiary is calculated as the Total Capital of the
         subsidiary minus the lower of:


         (a) the minimum Total Capital requirement of the subsidiary plus the
             capital conservation buffer (ie 10.5% of RWA); and

         (b) the portion of the consolidated minimum Total Capital requirement plus
             the capital conservation buffer (ie 10.5% of consolidated RWA) that
             relates to the subsidiary.

     (3) The amount of the surplus Total Capital that is attributable to the third-party
         investors is calculated by multiplying the surplus Total Capital by the
         percentage of Total Capital that is held by third-party investors.

     (4) The amount of this Total Capital that will be recognised in Tier 2 will exclude
         amounts recognised in Common Equity Tier 1 under CAP10.21 and amounts
         recognised in Additional Tier 1 under CAP10.23.


     FAQ
     FAQ1        Consider the case where the Common Equity Tier 1 and Additional Tier
                 1 capital of a subsidiary are sufficient to cover the minimum total
                 capital requirement of the subsidiary. For example, assume the
                 minimum total capital requirements of the subsidiary is 15, the sum of
                 Common Equity Tier 1 and Additional Tier 1 is 15 and the Common
                 Equity Tier 1 and Additional Tier 1 are fully owned by the parent of the
                 subsidiary (ie they are not issued to third parties). What is the capital
                 treatment if the subsidiary issues Tier 2 capital of 5 to third-party
                 investors?

                 This treatment is set out in CAP10.25. The surplus total capital of the
                 subsidiary is 5. The proportion of the total capital of 20 which is held
                 by third-party investors is 25% (ie 5/20*100%). Therefore, the amount
                 of the surplus total capital that is attributable to third-party investors is
                 1.25 (=5*25%). Consequently, 1.25 of the Tier 2 will be excluded from
                 consolidated Tier 2 capital. The residual 3.75 of Tier 2 capital will be
                 included in consolidated Tier 2 capital.

     FAQ2        Regarding the treatment of capital issued out of subsidiaries, how
                 should the surplus capital be calculated if the subsidiary is not
                 regulated on a stand-alone basis but is still subject to consolidated
                 supervision?

                 For capital issued by a consolidated subsidiary of a group to third
                 parties to be eligible for inclusion in the consolidated capital of the
                   banking group, CAP10.21 to CAP10.26 requires the minimum capital
                   requirements and definition of capital to be calculated for the
                   subsidiary irrespective of whether the subsidiary is regulated on a
                   stand-alone basis. In addition the contribution of this subsidiary to the
                   consolidated capital requirement of the group (ie excluding the impact
                   of intragroup exposures) must be calculated. All calculations must be
                   undertaken in respect of the subsidiary on a sub-consolidated basis (ie
                   the subsidiary must consolidate all of its subsidiaries that are also
                   included in the wider consolidated group). If this is considered too
                   operationally burdensome the bank may elect to give no recognition in
                   consolidated capital of the group to the capital issued by the subsidiary
                   to third parties. Finally, as set out in CAP10.20, it should be noted that
                   minority interest is only permitted to be included in Common Equity
                   Tier 1 if: (1) the instrument would, if issued by the bank, meet all of the
                   criteria for classification as common shares for regulatory purposes;
                   and (2) the subsidiary that issued the instrument is itself a bank. The
                   definition of a bank for this purpose is any institution that is subject to
                   the same minimum prudential standards and level of supervision as a
                   bank as mentioned in CAP10 (Footnote 15).


10.26 Where capital has been issued to third parties out of an SPV, none of this capital
      can be included in Common Equity Tier 1. However, such capital can be included
      in consolidated Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 and treated as if the bank itself had
      issued the capital directly to the third parties only if it meets all the relevant entry
      criteria and the only asset of the SPV is its investment in the capital of the bank in
      a form that meets or exceeds all the relevant entry criteria (as required by
      CAP10.11(15) for Additional Tier 1 and CAP10.16(9) for Tier 2). In cases where the
      capital has been issued to third parties through an SPV via a fully consolidated
      subsidiary of the bank, such capital may, subject to the requirements of this
      paragraph, be treated as if the subsidiary itself had issued it directly to the third
      parties and may be included in the bank's consolidated Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2
      in accordance with the treatment outlined in CAP10.23 to CAP10.26.


Assets that relate to the operation of the SPV may be excluded from
                   this assessment if they are de minimis.



     FAQ
     FAQ1      Does the Committee have any further guidance on the definition of
               SPVs? Are SPVs referred to in CAP10.26 those which are consolidated
               under international financial reporting standards (IFRS) or all SPVs?

               Guidance should be sought from national supervisors. SPVs referred to
               in CAP10.26 refer to all SPVs irrespective of whether they are
               consolidated under IFRS or other applicable accounting standards.

     FAQ2      Regarding the treatment of capital issued out of subsidiaries, how
               should the surplus capital be calculated if the subsidiary is not
               regulated on a stand-alone basis but is still subject to consolidated
               supervision?

               For capital issued by a consolidated subsidiary of a group to third
               parties to be eligible for inclusion in the consolidated capital of the
               banking group, CAP10.21 to CAP10.26 requires the minimum capital
               requirements and definition of capital to be calculated for the
               subsidiary irrespective of whether the subsidiary is regulated on a
               stand-alone basis. In addition the contribution of this subsidiary to the
               consolidated capital requirement of the group (ie excluding the impact
               of intragroup exposures) must be calculated. All calculations must be
               undertaken in respect of the subsidiary on a sub-consolidated basis (ie
               the subsidiary must consolidate all of its subsidiaries that are also
               included in the wider consolidated group). If this is considered too
               operationally burdensome the bank may elect to give no recognition in
               consolidated capital of the group to the capital issued by the subsidiary
               to third parties. Finally, as set out in CAP10.20, it should be noted that
               minority interest is only permitted to be included in Common Equity
               Tier 1 if: (1) the instrument would, if issued by the bank, meet all of the
               criteria for classification as common shares for regulatory purposes;
               and (2) the subsidiary that issued the instrument is itself a bank. The
               definition of a bank for this purpose is any institution that is subject to
               the same minimum prudential standards and level of supervision as a
               bank as mentioned in CAP10 (Footnote 15).


                                 CAP30
                                 Regulatory adjustments
                                 This chapter describes adjustments that must be
                                 made to the components of regulatory capital in
                                 order to calculate the amount of a bank's capital
                                 resources that may be used to meet prudential
                                 requirements.


                                 Version effective as of
                                 15 Dec 2019
                                 First version in the format of the consolidated
                                 framework.



Introduction
30.1   This section sets out the regulatory adjustments to be applied to regulatory
       capital. In most cases these adjustments are applied in the calculation of
       Common Equity Tier 1.

30.2   Global systemically important banks (G-SIBs) are required to meet a minimum
       total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) requirement set in accordance with the
       Financial Stability Board’s (FSB) TLAC principles and term sheet. The criteria for an
       instrument to be recognised as TLAC by the issuing G-SIB are set out in the FSB’s
       TLAC Term Sheet. Bank that invest in TLAC or similar instruments may be required
       to deduct them in the calculation of their own regulatory capital


Principles on Loss-absorbing and Recapitalisation Capacity of G-SIBs in
                   Resolution, Total Loss-absorbing Capacity (TLAC) Term Sheet, Financial
                   Stability Board, November 2015, available at .
                   The regulatory adjustments for TLAC set out in CAP30 relate to Section
                   15 of the FSB TLAC Term Sheet.


30.3   For the purposes of this section, holdings of TLAC include the following, hereafter
       collectively referred to as “other TLAC liabilities”:

       (1) All direct, indirect and synthetic investments in the instruments of a G-SIB
           resolution entity that are eligible to be recognised as external TLAC but that
           do not otherwise qualify as regulatory capital for the issuing G-SIB, with the
           exception of instruments excluded by CAP30.4; and

       (2) All holdings of instruments issued by a G-SIB resolution entity that rank pari
           passu to any instruments included in CAP30.3(1), with the exceptions of:

           (a) instruments listed as liabilities excluded from TLAC in Section 10 of the
               FSB TLAC Term Sheet (“Excluded Liabilities”); and

           (b) instruments ranking pari passu with instruments eligible to be
               recognised as TLAC by virtue of the exemptions to the subordination
               requirements in Section 11 of the FSB TLAC Term Sheet.



 Holdings of regulatory capital and other TLAC liabilities should reflect
                   the investing bank’s actual exposure to the issuer as regulatory capital
                   or TLAC (ie it is not reduced by amortisation, derecognition or
                   transitional arrangements). This means that Tier 2 instruments that no
                   longer count in full as regulatory capital (as a result of having a
                   residual maturity of less than five years) continue to be recognised in
                   full as a Tier 2 instrument by the investing bank for the regulatory
                   adjustments in this section. Similarly, holdings of other TLAC liabilities
                   in the final year of maturity are still subject to the regulatory
                   adjustments in this chapter even when such instruments no longer
                   receive any recognition in TLAC for the issuer.


30.4   In certain jurisdictions, G-SIBs may be able to recognise instruments ranking pari
       passu to Excluded Liabilities as external TLAC up to a limit, in accordance with the
       exemptions to the subordination requirements set out in the penultimate
       paragraph of Section 11 of the FSB TLAC Term Sheet. A bank’s holdings of such
       instruments will be subject to a proportionate deduction approach. Under this
       approach, only a proportion of holdings of instruments that are eligible to be
       recognised as external TLAC by virtue of the subordination exemptions will be
       considered a holding of TLAC by the investing bank. The proportion is calculated
       as:

       (1) the funding issued by the G-SIB resolution entity that ranks pari passu with
           Excluded Liabilities and that is recognised as external TLAC by the G-SIB
           resolution entity; divided by

       (2) the funding issued by the G-SIB resolution entity that ranks pari passu with
           Excluded Liabilities and that would be recognised as external TLAC if the
           subordination requirement was not applied.


For example, if a G-SIB resolution entity has funding that ranks pari
                   passu with Excluded Liabilities equal to 5% of risk-weighted assets
                   (RWA) and receives partial recognition of these instruments as external
                   TLAC equivalent to 3.5% of RWA , then an investing bank holding such
                   instruments must include only 70% (= 3.5 / 5) of such instruments in
                   calculating its TLAC holdings. The same proportion should be applied
                   by the investing bank to any indirect or synthetic investments in
                   instruments ranking pari passu with Excluded Liabilities and eligible to
                   be recognised as TLAC by virtue of the subordination exemptions.




30.5   Under the proportionate deduction approach, banks must calculate their
       holdings of other TLAC liabilities of the respective issuing G-SIB resolution
       entities based on the latest available public information provided by the issuing
       G-SIBs on the proportion to be used.

30.6   The regulatory adjustments relating to TLAC in CAP30.18 to CAP30.31 apply to
       holdings of TLAC issued by G-SIBs from the date at which the issuing G-SIB
       becomes subject to a minimum TLAC requirement.


The conformance period is set out in Section 21 of the FSB TLAC Term
                   Sheet. In summary, firms that have been designated as G-SIBs before
                   end-2015 and continue to be designated thereafter, with the exception
                   of such firms headquartered in an emerging market economy, must
                   meet the TLAC requirements from 1 January 2019. For firms
                   headquartered in emerging market economies, the requirements will
                   apply from 1 January 2025 at the latest; this may be accelerated in
                   certain circumstances.



Goodwill and other intangibles (except mortgage servicing rights)
30.7   Goodwill and all other intangibles must be deducted in the calculation of
       Common Equity Tier 1, including any goodwill included in the valuation of
       significant investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities
       that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation. With the exception of
       mortgage servicing rights, the full amount is to be deducted net of any
       associated deferred tax liability (DTL) which would be extinguished if the
       intangible assets become impaired or derecognised under the relevant
       accounting standards. The amount to be deducted in respect of mortgage
       servicing rights is set out in the threshold deductions section below.




       FAQ
       FAQ1       Must goodwill included in the valuation of significant investments in
                  the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside
                  the scope of regulatory consolidation and accounted for using the
                  equity method also be deducted?

                  Yes. Under the equity method, the carrying amount of the investment
                  includes any goodwill. In line with CAP30.7 a firm should calculate a
                  goodwill amount as at the acquisition date by separating any excess of
                  the acquisition cost over the investor’s share of the net fair value of the
                  identifiable assets and liabilities of the banking, financial or insurance
                  entity. In accordance with applicable accounting standards, this
                  goodwill amount may be adjusted for any subsequent impairment
                  losses and reversal of impairment losses that can be assigned to the
                  initial goodwill amount.

       FAQ2       Most intangible assets are deducted from regulatory capital, while
                  tangible assets generally are not. Is the lessee's recognised asset under
                  the new lease accounting standards (the right-of-use, or ROU, asset)
                  an asset that is tangible or intangible?

                  For regulatory capital purposes, an ROU asset should not be deducted
                  from regulatory capital so long as the underlying asset being leased is
                  a tangible asset.


30.8   Subject to prior supervisory approval, banks that report under local GAAP may
       use the IFRS definition of intangible assets to determine which assets are
       classified as intangible and are thus required to be deducted.




Deferred tax assets
30.9   Deferred tax assets (DTAs) that rely on future profitability of the bank to be
       realised are to be deducted in the calculation of Common Equity Tier 1. DTAs
       may be netted with associated DTLs only if the DTAs and DTLs relate to taxes
       levied by the same taxation authority and offsetting is permitted by the relevant
       taxation authority. Where these DTAs relate to temporary differences (eg
       allowance for credit losses) the amount to be deducted is set out in CAP30.32 to
       CAP30.34. All other such assets, eg those relating to operating losses, such as the
       carry forward of unused tax losses, or unused tax credits, are to be deducted in
       full net of deferred tax liabilities as described above. The DTLs permitted to be
       netted against DTAs must exclude amounts that have been netted against the
       deduction of goodwill, intangibles and defined benefit pension assets, and must
       be allocated on a pro rata basis between DTAs subject to the threshold deduction
       treatment and DTAs that are to be deducted in full.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       Regarding the deduction of DTAs, is it correct that DTAs resulting from
                  net operating losses are not subject to the 10% threshold? Is it correct
                  that the current test in some jurisdictions to check whether DTAs are
                  realisable within one year is not applicable under Basel III?

                  All DTAs that depend on the future profitability of the bank to be
                  realised and that arise from net operating losses are required to be
                  deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 in full and so do not benefit from
                  the 10% threshold. The test applied in certain jurisdictions to assess
                  whether a DTA is realisable over a one year period is not applicable
                  under Basel III.

       FAQ2       Given that DTAs and DTLs are accounting concepts, what does it mean
                  to say that offsetting is permitted by the relevant taxation authority?

                  It means that the underlying tax assets and tax liabilities must be
                  permitted to be offset by the relevant taxation authority for any DTLs
                  and DTAs created to be permitted to be offset in determining the
                  deduction from regulatory capital.

       FAQ3       Could the Basel Committee provide guidance on the treatment of
                  deferred taxes in a tax regime in which DTAs arising from temporary
                  differences are automatically transformed into a tax credit in case a
                  bank is not profitable, is liquidated or is placed under insolvency
                  proceedings? In the tax regime the tax credit can be offset against any
                  tax liability of the bank or of any legal entity belonging to the same



                   group as allowed under that national tax regime, and if the amount of
                   such tax liabilities is lower than such tax credit, any exceeding amount
                   of the tax credit will be cash refundable by the central government. Do
                   banks have to deduct DTAs arising from temporary differences in such
                   tax regimes?

                   No. Banks may apply a 100% risk weight for DTAs arising from
                   temporary differences in such tax regimes.


30.10 An overinstallment of tax or, in some jurisdictions, current year tax losses carried
      back to prior years may give rise to a claim or receivable from the government or
      local tax authority. Such amounts are typically classified as current tax assets for
      accounting purposes. The recovery of such a claim or receivable would not rely
      on the future profitability of the bank and would be assigned the relevant
      sovereign risk weighting.


Cash flow hedge reserve
30.11 The amount of the cash flow hedge reserve that relates to the hedging of items
      that are not fair valued on the balance sheet (including projected cash flows)
      should be derecognised in the calculation of Common Equity Tier 1. This means
      that positive amounts should be deducted and negative amounts should be
      added back.

30.12 This treatment specifically identifies the element of the cash flow hedge reserve
      that is to be derecognised for prudential purposes. It removes the element that
      gives rise to artificial volatility in common equity, as in this case the reserve only
      reflects one half of the picture (the fair value of the derivative, but not the
      changes in fair value of the hedged future cash flow).


Shortfall of the stock of provisions to expected losses
30.13 Banks using the internal ratings-based (IRB) approach for other asset classes must
      compare the amount of total eligible provisions, as defined in CRE35.4, with the
      total expected loss amount as calculated within the IRB approach and defined in
      CRE35.2. Where the total expected loss amount exceeds total eligible provisions,
      banks must deduct the difference from Common Equity Tier 1. The full amount is
      to be deducted and should not be reduced by any tax effects that could be
      expected to occur if provisions were to rise to the level of expected losses.
      Securitisation exposures will be subject to CRE40.36 and will contribute to neither
      the total expected loss amount nor the total eligible provisions.



Gain on sale related to securitisation transactions
30.14 Banks must deduct from Common Equity Tier 1 any increase in equity capital
      resulting from a securitisation transaction, such as that associated with expected
      future margin income resulting in a gain on sale that is recognised in regulatory
      capital.


Cumulative gains and losses due to changes in own credit risk on fair
valued liabilities
30.15 Derecognise in the calculation of Common Equity Tier 1, all unrealised gains and
      losses that have resulted from changes in the fair value of liabilities that are due
      to changes in the bank’s own credit risk. In addition, with regard to derivative
      liabilities, derecognise all accounting valuation adjustments arising from the
      bank's own credit risk. The offsetting between valuation adjustments arising from
      the bank's own credit risk and those arising from its counterparties' credit risk is
      not allowed.


Defined benefit pension fund assets and liabilities
30.16 Defined benefit pension fund liabilities, as included on the balance sheet, must be
      fully recognised in the calculation of Common Equity Tier 1 (ie Common Equity
      Tier 1 cannot be increased through derecognising these liabilities). For each
      defined benefit pension fund that is an asset on the balance sheet, the net asset
      on the balance sheet in respect of the plan or fund should be deducted in the
      calculation of Common Equity Tier 1 net of any associated deferred tax liability
      which would be extinguished if the asset should become impaired or
      derecognised under the relevant accounting standards. Assets in the fund to
      which the bank has unrestricted and unfettered access can, with supervisory
      approval, offset the deduction. Such offsetting assets should be given the risk
      weight they would receive if they were owned directly by the bank.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       Certain accounting standards currently allow the deferral of actuarial
                  losses beyond a specified threshold (ie the corridor approach) without
                  recognition in the financial statements. Is it correct that the deficit as
                  included on the balance sheet should be deducted if the corridor
                  approach is applied in accounting for pensions?

                  The liability as recorded on the balance sheet in respect of a defined
                  benefit pension fund should be recognised in the calculation of
                  Common Equity Tier 1. In other words, the creation of the liability on
                  the balance sheet of the bank will automatically result in a reduction in
                  the bank’s common equity (through a reduction in reserves) and no
                  adjustment should be applied in respect of this in the calculation of
                  Common Equity Tier 1.


30.17 This treatment addresses the concern that assets arising from pension funds may
      not be capable of being withdrawn and used for the protection of depositors and
      other creditors of a bank. The concern is that their only value stems from a
      reduction in future payments into the fund. The treatment allows for banks to
      reduce the deduction of the asset if they can address these concerns and show
      that the assets can be easily and promptly withdrawn from the fund.


Investments in own shares (treasury stock), own other capital
instruments or own other TLAC liabilities
30.18 All of a bank’s investments in its own common shares, whether held directly or
      indirectly, will be deducted in the calculation of Common Equity Tier 1 (unless
      already derecognised under the relevant accounting standards). In addition, any
      own stock which the bank could be contractually obliged to purchase should be
      deducted in the calculation of Common Equity Tier 1. The treatment described
      will apply irrespective of the location of the exposure in the banking book or the
      trading book. In addition:

       (1) Gross long positions may be deducted net of short positions in the same
           underlying exposure only if the short positions involve no counterparty risk.

       (2) Banks should look through holdings of index securities to deduct exposures
           to own shares. However, gross long positions in own shares resulting from
           holdings of index securities may be netted against short position in own
           shares resulting from short positions in the same underlying index. In such
           cases the short positions may involve counterparty risk (which will be subject
           to the relevant counterparty credit risk charge).



     (3) Subject to supervisory approval, a bank may use a conservative estimate of
         investments in its own shares where the exposure results from holdings of
         index securities and the bank finds it operationally burdensome to look
         through and monitor its exact exposure.


     FAQ
     FAQ1       If a bank acts as market-maker for its own capital instruments is this
                deemed to create any contractual obligations requiring deductions?

                Not until the bank has agreed to purchase stock at an agreed price and
                either this offer has been accepted or cannot be withdrawn. The
                purpose of the rule is to capture existing contractual arrangements that
                could lead to the bank being required to make a purchase of its own
                capital instruments at a price agreed in the contract (eg a forward
                purchase or a written put option), such that the extent of the potential
                loss is known in advance. It was not intended to capture all potential
                contracts that a bank may enter to in the future.

     FAQ2       For investments in own shares through holdings of index securities,
                banks may net gross long positions against short positions in the same
                underlying index. Can the same approach be applied to investments in
                unconsolidated financial entities?

                For both investments in own shares and investments in unconsolidated
                financial entities that result from holdings of index securities, banks are
                permitted to net gross long positions against short positions in the
                same underlying index as long as the maturity of the short position
                matches the maturity of the long position or has a residual maturity of
                at least one year.

     FAQ3       What would be the minimum standard for a firm to use a conservative
                estimate of its investments in the capital of banking, financial and
                insurance entities held through index securities?

                National authorities will provide guidance on what is a conservative
                estimate; however, the methodology for the estimate should
                demonstrate that in no case will the actual exposure be higher than
                the estimated exposure.



30.19 This deduction is necessary to avoid the double-counting of a bank’s own capital.
      Certain accounting regimes do not permit the recognition of treasury stock and
      so this deduction is only relevant where recognition on the balance sheet is
       permitted. The treatment seeks to remove the double-counting that arises from
       direct holdings, indirect holdings via index funds and potential future holdings as
       a result of contractual obligations to purchase own shares.

30.20 Following the same approach outlined above, banks must deduct investments in
      their own Additional Tier 1 in the calculation of their Additional Tier 1 capital and
      must deduct investments in their own Tier 2 in the calculation of their Tier 2
      capital. G-SIB resolution entities must deduct holdings of their own other TLAC
      liabilities in the calculation of their TLAC resources. If a bank is required to make a
      deduction from a particular tier of capital and it does not have enough of that tier
      of capital to satisfy that deduction, then the shortfall will be deducted from the
      next higher tier of capital. In the case of insufficient TLAC resources, then the
      holdings will be deducted from Tier 2.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        If a bank acts as market-maker for its own capital instruments, is this
                   deemed to create any contractual obligations requiring deductions?

                   Not until the bank has agreed to purchase stock at an agreed price and
                   either this offer has been accepted or cannot be withdrawn. The
                   purpose of the rule is to capture existing contractual arrangements that
                   could lead to the bank being required to make a purchase of its own
                   capital instruments at a price agreed in the contract (eg a forward
                   purchase or a written put option), such that the extent of the potential
                   loss is known in advance. It was not intended to capture all potential
                   contracts that a bank may enter to in the future.



Reciprocal cross-holdings in the capital or other TLAC liabilities of
banking, financial and insurance entities
30.21 Reciprocal cross-holdings of capital that are designed to artificially inflate the
      capital position of banks will be deducted in full. Banks must apply a
      “corresponding deduction approach” to such investments in the capital of other
      banks, other financial institutions and insurance entities. This means the
      deduction should be applied to the same component of capital for which the
      capital would qualify if it was issued by the bank itself. Reciprocal cross-holdings
      of other TLAC liabilities that are designed to artificially inflate the TLAC position
      of G-SIBs must be deducted in full from Tier 2 capital.



     FAQ
     FAQ1      Is provision of capital support by way of guarantee or other capital
               enhancements treated as capital invested in financial institutions?

               Yes. It is treated as capital in respect of the maximum amount that
               could be required to be paid out on any such guarantee.

     FAQ2      Can the Basel Committee give some examples of what may be
               considered to be a financial institution / entity?

               Guidance should be sought from national supervisors. However,
               examples of the type of activities that financial entities might be
               involved in include financial leasing, issuing credit cards, portfolio
               management, investment advisory, custodial and safekeeping services
               and other similar activities that are ancillary to the business of banking.

     FAQ3      How should exposures to the capital of other financial institutions be
               valued for the purpose of determining the amount of to be subject to
               the threshold deduction treatment?

               Exposures should be valued according to their valuation on the balance
               sheet of the bank. In this way the exposures captured represents the
               loss to Common Equity Tier 1 that the bank would suffer if the capital
               of the financial institution is written-off.

     FAQ4      For capital instruments that are required to be phased out from 1
               January 2013, the net amount allowed to be recognised each year
               onwards is determined on a portfolio basis according to CAP90.1 to
               CAP90.3. Regarding a bank that holds such instruments, ie the
               investing bank, could the Basel Committee explain how the
               corresponding deduction approach should be applied during the
               transitional phase? For example, if a non-common equity instrument is
               being phased out from Tier 1 by the issuing bank, should the bank use
               full value of the instrument or the amount recognised by the issuing
               bank (ie the phased-out value) to determine the size of the holding
               subject to the deduction treatment?

               During the period in which instruments that do not meet the Basel III
               entry criteria are being phased out from regulatory capital (ie from 1
               January 2013 to 1 January 2022) banks must use the full value of any
               relevant capital instruments that they hold to calculate the amount to
               be subject to the deduction treatment set out in CAP30.21 to CAP30.30
               . For example, assume that a bank holds a capital instrument with a
               value of 100 on its balance sheet and also assume that the issuer of the

                   capital instrument is a bank that only recognises 50 in its Tier 1 capital
                   due to the application of the phasing-out requirements of CAP90.1 to
                   CAP90.3. In this case the investing bank must apply the corresponding
                   deduction approach set out in CAP30.21 to CAP30.30 on the basis that
                   it has an investment of 100 in Additional Tier 1 instruments.



Investments in the capital or other TLAC liabilities of banking, financial
and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory
consolidation and where the bank does not own more than 10% of the
issued common share capital of the entity
30.22 The regulatory adjustment described in this section applies to investments in the
      capital or other TLAC liabilities of banking, financial and insurance entities that
      are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation and where the bank does not
      own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity. These
      investments are deducted from regulatory capital, subject to a threshold. For the
      purpose of this regulatory adjustment:

       (1) Investments include direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of capital
           instruments or other TLAC liabilities. For example, banks should look through
           holdings of index securities to determine their underlying holdings of capital
           or other TLAC liabilities.

       (2) Holdings in both the banking book and trading book are to be included.
           Capital includes common stock and all other types of cash and synthetic
           capital instruments (eg subordinated debt). Other TLAC liabilities are defined
           in CAP30.3 and CAP30.4.

       (3) For capital instruments, it is the net long position that is to be included (ie
           the gross long position net of short positions in the same underlying
           exposure where the maturity of the short position either matches the
           maturity of the long position or has a residual maturity of at least one year).
           Banks are also permitted to net gross long positions arising through
           holdings of index securities against short positions in the same underlying
           index, as long as the maturity of the short position matches the maturity of
           the long position or has residual maturity of at least a year. For other TLAC
           liabilities, it is the gross long position in CAP30.23, CAP30.24 and CAP30.25
           and the net long position that is to be included in CAP30.26.

       (4) Underwriting positions in capital instruments or other TLAC liabilities held for
           five working days or less can be excluded. Underwriting positions held for
           longer than five working days must be included.




     (5) If the capital instrument of the entity in which the bank has invested does
         not meet the criteria for Common Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1, or Tier 2
         capital of the bank, the capital is to be considered common shares for the
         purposes of this regulatory adjustment.

     (6) National discretion applies to allow banks, with prior supervisory approval, to
         exclude temporarily certain investments where these have been made in the
         context of resolving or providing financial assistance to reorganise a
         distressed institution.

Indirect holdings are exposures or parts of exposures that, if a direct
                 holding loses its value, will result in a loss to the bank substantially
                 equivalent to the loss in value of the direct holding.

  If banks find it operationally burdensome to look through and monitor
                 their exact exposure to the capital or other TLAC liabilities of other
                 financial institutions as a result of their holdings of index securities,
                 national authorities may permit banks, subject to prior supervisory
                 approval, to use a conservative estimate. The methodology should
                 demonstrate that in no case will the actual exposure be higher than
                 the estimated exposure.

    If the investment is issued out of a regulated financial entity and not
                 included in regulatory capital in the relevant sector of the financial
                 entity, it is not required to be deducted.


     FAQ
     FAQ1        Is provision of capital support by way of guarantee or other capital
                 enhancements treated as capital invested in financial institutions?

                 Yes. It is treated as capital in respect of the maximum amount that
                 could be required to be paid out on any such guarantee.

     FAQ2        Can the Basel Committee give some examples of what may be
                 considered to be a financial institution / entity?

                 Guidance should be sought from national supervisors. However,
                 examples of the type of activities that financial entities might be
                 involved in include financial leasing, issuing credit cards, portfolio
                 management, investment advisory, custodial and safekeeping services
                 and other similar activities that are ancillary to the business of banking.


     FAQ3      To what extent can long and short positions be netted for the purpose
               of computing the regulatory adjustments applying to investments in
               banking, financial and insurance entities?

               There is no restriction on the extent to which a short position can net a
               long position for the purposes of determining the size of the exposure
               to be deducted, subject to the short position meeting the requirements
               set out in CAP30.22 to CAP30.28.

     FAQ4      How should exposures to the capital of other financial institutions be
               valued for the purpose of determining the amount of to be subject to
               the threshold deduction treatment?

               Exposures should be valued according to their valuation on the balance
               sheet of the bank. In this way the exposures captured represents the
               loss to Common Equity Tier 1 that the bank would suffer if the capital
               of the financial institution is written-off.

     FAQ5      Can short positions in indexes that are hedging long cash or synthetic
               positions be decomposed to provide recognition of the hedge for
               capital purposes?

               The portion of the index that is composed of the same underlying
               exposure that it is being hedged can be used to offset the long position
               only if all of the following conditions are met: (i) both the exposure
               being hedged and the short position in the index are held in the
               trading book; (ii) the positions are fair valued on the bank’s balance
               sheet; and (iii) the hedge is recognised as effective under the bank’s
               internal control processes assessed by supervisors.

     FAQ6      Consider a bank that invests in an equity position (a long position) and
               sells it forward (a short position) to another bank (with maturity of
               forward sale below one year). Is it correct that both banks in this
               example will include a long position on the equity exposure, ie the
               selling bank cannot net the forward sale (as it has less than one year
               maturity) and the buying bank must recognise the forward purchase
               (as all long positions are added irrespective of maturity)? Also, given
               the fact that cash equity has no legal maturity, how does the maturity
               matching requirement apply?

               In the example both banks will be considered to have long positions on
               the equity exposure. Furthermore, the Basel III rules require that the
               maturity of the short position must either match the maturity of the
               long position or have a residual maturity of at least one year.
               Therefore, in the case of cash equity positions the short position must


                  have a residual maturity of at least one year to be considered to offset
                  the cash equity position. However, after considering this issue, the
                  Basel Committee has concluded that, for positions in the trading book,
                  if the bank has a contractual right/obligation to sell a long position at
                  a specific point in time and the counterparty in the contract has an
                  obligation to purchase the long position if the bank exercises its right
                  to sell, this point in time may be treated as the maturity of the long
                  position. Therefore if these conditions are met, the maturity of the long
                  position and the short position are deemed to be matched even if the
                  maturity of the short position is within one year.

       FAQ7       Does the five working day exemption for underwriting positions begin
                  on the day the payment is made by the underwriter to the issuing
                  bank?

                  CAP30.22 relates to deductions of investments in other financial
                  institutions, where the underlying policy rationale is to remove the
                  double counting of capital that exists when such investments are made.
                  When a bank underwrites the issuance of capital by another bank, the
                  bank issuing capital will only receive recognition for this capital when
                  the underwriter makes the payment to the issuing bank to purchase
                  the capital instruments. As such, the underwriting bank need not
                  include the (committed) purchase within “investments in the capital of
                  other financial institutions” prior to the day on which payment is made
                  by the underwriting bank to the issuing bank. The five day
                  underwriting exemption begins on the date on which this payment is
                  made and effectively permits five working days where double counting
                  can exist before the exposure must be subject to the deduction
                  treatment outlined in CAP30.22.


30.23 A G-SIB’s holdings of other TLAC liabilities must be deducted from Tier 2 capital
      resources, unless either the following conditions are met, or the holding falls
      within the 10% threshold provided in CAP30.26.

       (1) The holding has been designated by the bank to be treated in accordance
           with this paragraph;

       (2) The holding is in the bank’s trading book;

       (3) The holding is sold within 30 business days of the date of acquisition; and

       (4) Such holdings are, in aggregate and on a gross long basis, less than 5% of
           the G-SIB’s common equity (after apply all other regulatory adjustments in
           full listed prior to CAP30.22.

30.24 If a holding designated under CAP30.23 no longer meets any of the conditions
      set out in that paragraph, it must be deducted in full from Tier 2 capital. Once a
      holding has been designated under CAP30.23, it may not subsequently be
      included within the 10% threshold referred to in CAP30.26. This approach is
      designed to limit the use of the 5% threshold in CAP30.23 to holdings of TLAC
      instruments needed to be held within the banking system to ensure deep and
      liquid markets.

30.25 If a bank is not a G-SIB, its holdings of other TLAC liabilities must be deducted
      from Tier 2 capital resources, unless:

       (1) such holdings are, in aggregate and on a gross long basis, less than 5% of
           the bank’s common equity (after applying all other regulatory adjustments
           listed in full prior to CAP30.22); or

       (2) the holdings fall within the 10% threshold provided in CAP30.26.


30.26 If the total of all holdings of capital instruments and other TLAC liabilities, as
      listed in CAP30.22 and not covered by the 5% threshold described in CAP30.23
      and CAP30.24 (for G-SIBs) or CAP30.25 (for non-G-SIBs), in aggregate and on a
      net long basis exceed 10% of the bank’s common equity (after applying all other
      regulatory adjustments in full listed prior to CAP30.22) then the amount above
      10% is required to be deducted. In the case of capital instruments, deduction
      should be made applying a corresponding deduction approach. This means the
      deduction should be applied to the same component of capital for which the
      capital would qualify if it was issued by the bank itself. In the case of holdings of
      other TLAC liabilities, the deduction should be applied to Tier 2 capital.
      Accordingly, the amount to be deducted from common equity should be
      calculated as the total of all holdings of capital instruments and those holdings of
      other TLAC liabilities not covered by CAP30.23 and CAP30.24 or CAP30.25 which
      in aggregate exceed 10% of the bank’s common equity (as per above) multiplied
      by the common equity holdings as a percentage of the total holdings of capital
      instruments and other TLAC liabilities not covered by CAP30.23 and CAP30.24 or
      CAP30.25. This would result in a common equity deduction which corresponds to
      the proportion of the holdings held in common equity. Similarly, the amount to
      be deducted from Additional Tier 1 capital should be calculated as the total of all
      holdings of capital instruments and other TLAC liabilities not covered by CAP30.23
      and CAP30.24 or CAP30.25 which in aggregate exceed 10% of the bank’s
      common equity (as per above) multiplied by the Additional Tier 1 capital holdings
      as a percentage of the total. The amount to be deducted from Tier 2 capital
      should be calculated as the total of all holdings of capital instruments and other
      TLAC liabilities not covered by CAP30.23 and CAP30.24 or CAP30.25 which in
      aggregate exceed 10% of the bank’s common equity (as per above) multiplied by
      holdings of the Tier 2 capital and other TLAC liabilities as a percentage of the
      total.

     FAQ
     FAQ1      In many jurisdictions the entry criteria for capital issue by insurance
               companies and other financial entities will differ from the entry criteria
               for capital issued by banks. How should the corresponding deduction
               approach be applied in such cases?

               In respect of capital issued by insurance companies and other financial
               entities, jurisdictions are permitted to give national guidance as to
               what constitutes a corresponding deduction in cases where the entry
               criteria for capital issued by these companies differs from the entry
               criteria for capital issued by the bank and where the institution is
               subject to minimum prudential standards and supervision. Such
               guidance should aim to map the instruments issued by these
               companies to the tier of bank capital which is of the closest
               corresponding quality.

     FAQ2      Can further guidance be provided on the calculation of the thresholds
               for investments in the capital of other financial institutions, in
               particular the ordering of the application of the deductions?

               For further guidance on this issue, please see the calculations as set out
               in the Basel III implementation monitoring workbook and the related
               instructions. This can be found at www.bis.org/bcbs/qis/index.htm .

     FAQ3      For capital instruments that are required to be phased out from 1
               January 2013, the net amount allowed to be recognised each year
               onwards is determined on a portfolio basis according to CAP90.1 to
               CAP90.3. Regarding a bank that holds such instruments, ie the
               investing bank, could the Basel Committee explain how the
               corresponding deduction approach should be applied during the
               transitional phase? For example, if a non-common equity instrument is
               being phased out from Tier 1 by the issuing bank, should the bank use
               full value of the instrument or the amount recognised by the issuing
               bank (ie the phased-out value) to determine the size of the holding
               subject to the deduction treatment?

               During the period in which instruments that do not meet the Basel III
               entry criteria are being phased out from regulatory capital (ie from 1
               January 2013 to 1 January 2022) banks must use the full value of any
               relevant capital instruments that they hold to calculate the amount to
               be subject to the deduction treatment set out in CAP30.21 to CAP30.30
               . For example, assume that a bank holds a capital instrument with a
               value of 100 on its balance sheet and also assume that the issuer of the
               capital instrument is a bank that only recognises 50 in its Tier 1 capital
               due to the application of the phasing-out requirements of CAP90.1 to                   CAP90.3. In this case the investing bank must apply the corresponding
                   deduction approach set out in CAP30.21 to CAP30.30 on the basis that
                   it has an investment of 100 in Additional Tier 1 instruments.


30.27 If a bank is required to make a deduction from a particular tier of capital and it
      does not have enough of that tier of capital to satisfy that deduction, the shortfall
      will be deducted from the next higher tier of capital (eg if a bank does not have
      enough Additional Tier 1 capital to satisfy the deduction, the shortfall will be
      deducted from Common Equity Tier 1).

30.28 Amounts that are not deducted will continue to be risk weighted. Thus,
      instruments in the trading book will be treated as per the market risk rules and
      instruments in the banking book should be treated as per the IRB approach or
      the standardised approach (as applicable). For the application of risk weighting
      the amount of the holdings must be allocated on a pro rata basis between those
      below and those above the threshold.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Can the Committee confirm that where positions are deducted from
                   capital they should not also contribute to risk-weighted assets (RWA)?
                   Where positions are held in the trading book firms might have market
                   risk hedges in place, so that if the holdings were excluded while leaving
                   the hedges behind in the market risk calculations RWA could
                   potentially increase. In such cases can banks choose to include such
                   positions in their market risk calculations?

                   Gross long positions that exceed the relevant thresholds and are
                   therefore deducted from capital can be excluded for the calculation of
                   risk weighted assets. However, amounts below the thresholds for
                   deduction must be included in risk weighted assets. Furthermore, any
                   counterparty credit risk associated with short positions used to offset
                   long positions must remain included in the calculation of risk weighted
                   assets.

                   Regarding positions that are hedged against market risk, but where the
                   hedge does not qualify for offsetting the gross long position for the
                   purposes of determining the amount to be deducted, banks may
                   choose to continue to include the long exposure in their market risk
                   calculations (in addition to deducting the exposure). Where the hedge
                   does qualify for offsetting the gross long position, both hedged long
                  and short position can be, but does not have to be, excluded from the
                   market risk calculations.


Significant investments in the capital or other TLAC liabilities of
banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of
regulatory consolidation
30.29 The regulatory adjustment described in this section applies to investments in the
      capital or other TLAC liabilities of banking, financial and insurance entities that
      are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation where the bank owns more
      than 10% of the issued common share capital of the issuing entity or where the
      entity is an affiliate of the bank. In addition:

       (1) Investments include direct, indirect and synthetic holdings of capital
           instruments or other TLAC liabilities. For example, banks should look through
           holdings of index securities to determine their underlying holdings of capital
           or other TLAC liabilities.

       (2) Holdings in both the banking book and trading book are to be included.
           Capital includes common stock and all other types of cash and synthetic
           capital instruments (eg subordinated debt). Other TLAC liabilities are defined
           in CAP30.3 to CAP30.4. It is the net long position that is to be included (ie
           the gross long position net of short positions in the same underlying
           exposure where the maturity of the short position either matches the
           maturity of the long position or has a residual maturity of at least one year).
           Banks are also permitted to net gross long positions arising through
           holdings of index securities against short positions in the same underlying
           index, as long as the maturity of the short position matches the maturity of
           the long position or has residual maturity of at least a year.

       (3) Underwriting positions in capital instruments or other TLAC liabilities held for
           five working days or less can be excluded. Underwriting positions held for
           longer than five working days must be included.

       (4) If the capital instrument of the entity in which the bank has invested does
           not meet the criteria for Common Equity Tier 1, Additional Tier 1, or Tier 2
           capital of the bank, the capital is to be considered common shares for the
           purposes of this regulatory adjustment.

       (5) National discretion applies to allow banks, with prior supervisory approval, to
           exclude temporarily certain investments where these have been made in the
           context of resolving or providing financial assistance to reorganise a
           distressed institution.



 Investments in entities that are outside of the scope of regulatory
                 consolidation refers to investments in entities that have not been
                 consolidated at all or have not been consolidated in such a way as to
                 result in their assets being included in the calculation of consolidated
                 risk-weighted assets of the group.

    An affiliate of a bank is defined as a company that controls, or is
                 controlled by, or is under common control with, the bank. Control of a
                 company is defined as (1) ownership, control, or holding with power to
                 vote 20% or more of a class of voting securities of the company; or (2)
                 consolidation of the company for financial reporting purposes.

     If a bank finds it operationally burdensome to look through and
                 monitor their exact exposure to the capital or other TLAC liabilities of
                 other financial institutions as a result of their holdings of index
                 securities, national authorities may permit banks, subject to prior
                 supervisory approval, to use a conservative estimate.

     If the investment is issued out of a regulated financial entity and not
                 included in regulatory capital in the relevant sector of the financial
                 entity, it is not required to be deducted.


     FAQ
     FAQ1        Is provision of capital support by way of guarantee or other capital
                 enhancements treated as capital invested in financial institutions?

                 Yes. It is treated as capital in respect of the maximum amount that
                 could be required to be paid out on any such guarantee.

     FAQ2        Can the Basel Committee give some examples of what may be
                 considered to be a financial institution / entity?

                 Guidance should be sought from national supervisors. However,
                 examples of the type of activities that financial entities might be
                 involved in include financial leasing, issuing credit cards, portfolio
                 management, investment advisory, custodial and safekeeping services
                 and other similar activities that are ancillary to the business of banking.

     FAQ3        To what extent can long and short positions be netted for the purpose
                 of computing the regulatory adjustments applying to investments in
                 banking, financial and insurance entities?




               There is no restriction on the extent to which a short position can net a
               long position for the purposes of determining the size of the exposure
               to be deducted, subject to the short position meeting the requirements
               set out in CAP30.29 to CAP30.31.


     FAQ4      Can significant investments in insurance entities, including fully owned
               insurance subsidiaries, be consolidated for regulatory purposes as an
               alternative to the deduction treatment set out in CAP30.28 to CAP30.34
               ?

               Jurisdictions can permit or require banks to consolidate significant
               investments in insurance entities as an alternative to the deduction
               approach on the condition that the method of consolidation results in a
               minimum capital standard that is at least as conservative as that
               which would apply under the deduction approach, ie the consolidation
               method cannot result in banks benefiting from higher capital ratios
               than would apply under the deduction approach.

               In order to ensure this outcome, banks that apply a consolidation
               approach are required to calculate their capital ratios under both the
               consolidation approach and the deduction approach, at each period
               that they report or disclose these ratios.

               In cases when the consolidation approach results in lower capital ratios
               than the deduction approach (ie consolidation has a more conservative
               outcome than deduction), banks will report these lower ratios. In cases
               when the consolidation approach results in any of the bank’s capital
               ratios being higher than the ratios calculated under the deduction
               approach (ie consolidation has a less conservative outcome than
               deduction), the bank must adjust the capital ratio downwards through
               applying a regulatory adjustment (ie a deduction) to the relevant
               component of capital.

     FAQ5      Can short positions in indexes that are hedging long cash or synthetic
               positions be decomposed to provide recognition of the hedge for
               capital purposes?

               The portion of the index that is composed of the same underlying
               exposure that it is being hedged can be used to offset the long position
               only if all of the following conditions are met: (i) both the exposure
               being hedged and the short position in the index are held in the
               trading book; (ii) the positions are fair valued on the bank’s balance
               sheet; and (iii) the hedge is recognised as effective under the bank’s
               internal control processes assessed by supervisors.



Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                           106/1626
       FAQ6        Consider a bank that invests in an equity position (a long position) and
                   sells it forward (a short position) to another bank (with maturity of
                   forward sale below one year). Is it correct that both banks in this
                   example will include a long position on the equity exposure, ie the
                   selling bank cannot net the forward sale (as it has less than one year
                   maturity) and the buying bank must recognise the forward purchase
                   (as all long positions are added irrespective of maturity)? Also, given
                   the fact that cash equity has no legal maturity, how does the maturity
                   matching requirement apply?

                   In the example both banks will be considered to have long positions on
                   the equity exposure. Furthermore, the Basel III rules require that the
                   maturity of the short position must either match the maturity of the
                   long position or have a residual maturity of at least one year.
                   Therefore, in the case of cash equity positions the short position must
                   have a residual maturity of at least one year to be considered to offset
                   the cash equity position. However, after considering this issue, the
                   Basel Committee has concluded that, for positions in the trading book,
                   if the bank has a contractual right/obligation to sell a long position at
                   a specific point in time and the counterparty in the contract has an
                   obligation to purchase the long position if the bank exercises its right
                   to sell, this point in time may be treated as the maturity of the long
                   position. Therefore if these conditions are met, the maturity of the long
                   position and the short position are deemed to be matched even if the
                   maturity of the short position is within one year.


30.30 All investments in capital instruments included above that are not common
      shares must be fully deducted following a corresponding deduction approach.
      This means the deduction should be applied to the same tier of capital for which
      the capital would qualify if it was issued by the bank itself. All holdings of other
      TLAC liabilities included above (and as defined in CAP30.3 to CAP30.5 ie applying
      the proportionate deduction approach for holdings of instruments eligible for
      TLAC by virtue of the penultimate paragraph of Section 11 of the FSB TLAC Term
      Sheet) must be fully deducted from Tier 2 capital. If the bank is required to make
      a deduction from a particular tier of capital and it does not have enough of that
      tier of capital to satisfy that deduction, the shortfall will be deducted from the
      next higher tier of capital (eg if a bank does not have enough Additional Tier 1
      capital to satisfy the deduction, the shortfall will be deducted from Common
      Equity Tier 1).




      FAQ
      FAQ1       In many jurisdictions the entry criteria for capital issued by insurance
                 companies and other financial entities will differ from the entry criteria
                 for capital issued by banks. How should the corresponding deduction
                 approach be applied in such cases?

                 In respect of capital issued by insurance companies and other financial
                 entities, jurisdictions are permitted to give national guidance as to
                 what constitutes a corresponding deduction in cases where the entry
                 criteria for capital issued by these companies differs from the entry
                 criteria for capital issued by the bank and where the institution is
                 subject to minimum prudential standards and supervision. Such
                 guidance should aim to map the instruments issued by these
                 companies to the tier of bank capital which is of the closest
                 corresponding quality.

      FAQ2       For capital instruments that are required to be phased out from 1
                 January 2013, the net amount allowed to be recognised each year
                 onwards is determined on a portfolio basis according to CAP90.1 to
                 CAP90.3. Regarding a bank that holds such instruments, ie the
                 investing bank, could the Basel Committee explain how the
                 corresponding deduction approach should be applied during the
                 transitional phase? For example, if a non-common equity instrument is
                 being phased out from Tier 1 by the issuing bank, should the bank use
                 full value of the instrument or the amount recognised by the issuing
                 bank (ie the phased-out value) to determine the size of the holding
                 subject to the deduction treatment?

                 During the period in which instruments that do not meet the Basel III
                 entry criteria are being phased out from regulatory capital (ie from 1
                 January 2013 to 1 January 2022) banks must use the full value of any
                 relevant capital instruments that they hold to calculate the amount to
                 be subject to the deduction treatment set out in CAP30.20 to CAP30.29
                 . For example, assume that a bank holds a capital instrument with a
                 value of 100 on its balance sheet and also assume that the issuer of the
                 capital instrument is a bank that only recognises 50 in its Tier 1 capital
                 due to the application of the phasing-out requirements of CAP90.1 to
                 CAP90.3. In this case the investing bank must apply the corresponding
                 deduction approach set out in CAP30.20 to CAP30.29 on the basis that
                 it has an investment of 100 in Additional Tier 1 instruments.


30.31 Investments included above that are common shares will be subject to the
      threshold treatment described in the next section.




Threshold deductions
30.32 Instead of a full deduction, the following items may each receive limited
      recognition when calculating Common Equity Tier 1, with recognition capped at
      10% of the bank’s common equity (after the application of all regulatory
      adjustments set out in CAP30.7 to CAP30.30):

       (1) significant investments in the common shares of unconsolidated financial
           institutions (banks, insurance and other financial entities) as referred to in
           CAP30.29;

       (2) mortgage servicing rights; and

       (3) DTAs that arise from temporary differences.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        What is the definition of a financial institution?

                   The definition is determined by national guidance / regulation at
                   present.

       FAQ2        How should exposures to the capital of other financial institutions be
                   valued for the purpose of determining the amount of to be subject to
                   the threshold deduction treatment?

                   Exposures should be valued according to their valuation on the balance
                   sheet of the bank. In this way the exposures captured represents the
                   loss to Common Equity Tier 1 that the bank would suffer if the capital
                   of the financial institution is written off.


30.33 The amount of the three items that remains recognised after the application of all
      regulatory adjustments must not exceed 15% of the Common Equity Tier 1
      capital, calculated after all regulatory adjustments.



      FAQ
      FAQ1        This FAQ is meant to clarify the calculation of the 15% limit on
                  significant investments in the common shares of unconsolidated
                  financial institutions (banks, insurance and other financial entities);
                  mortgage servicing rights, and DTAs arising from temporary
                  differences (collectively referred to as specified items).

                  The recognition of these specified items will be limited to 15% of
                  Common Equity Tier 1 capital, after the application of all deductions.
                  To determine the maximum amount of the specified items that can be
                  recognised*, banks and supervisors should multiply the amount of
                  Common Equity Tier 1** (after all deductions, including after the
                  deduction of the specified items in full) by 17.65%. This number is
                  derived from the proportion of 15% to 85% (ie 15%/85% = 17.65%).

                  As an example, take a bank with €85 of common equity (calculated net
                  of all deductions, including after the deduction of the specified items in
                  full). The maximum amount of specified items that can be recognised
                  by this bank in its calculation of Common Equity Tier 1 capital is €85 x
                  17.65% = €15. Any excess above €15 must be deducted from Common
                  Equity Tier 1. If the bank has specified items (excluding amounts
                  deducted after applying the individual 10% limits) that in aggregate
                  sum up to the 15% limit, Common Equity Tier 1 after inclusion of the
                  specified items, will amount to €85 + €15 = €100. The percentage of
                  specified items to total Common Equity Tier 1 would equal 15%.

                  * The actual amount that will be recognised may be lower than this
                  maximum, either because the sum of the three specified items are
                  below the 15% limit set out in this annex, or due to the application of
                  the 10% limit applied to each item.

                  ** At this point this is a "hypothetical" amount of Common Equity Tier
                  1 in that it is used only for the purposes of determining the deduction
                  of the specified items.


30.34 The amount of the three items that are not deducted in the calculation of
      Common Equity Tier 1 will be risk weighted at 250%.



     FAQ
     FAQ1      Could the Basel Committee provide guidance on the treatment of
               deferred taxes in a tax regime in which DTAs arising from temporary
               differences are automatically transformed into a tax credit in case a
               bank is not profitable, is liquidated or is placed under insolvency
               proceedings? In the tax regime the tax credit can be offset against any
               tax liability of the bank or of any legal entity belonging to the same
               group as allowed under that national tax regime, and if the amount of
               such tax liabilities is lower than such tax credit, any exceeding amount
               of the tax credit will be cash refundable by the central government. Do
               banks have to deduct DTAs arising from temporary differences in such
               tax regimes?

               No. Banks may apply a 100% risk weight for DTAs arising from
               temporary differences in such tax regimes.




                                 CAP50
                                 Prudent valuation guidance
                                 This chapter provides banks with guidance on
                                 prudent valuation for positions that are
                                 accounted for at fair value, whether they are in
                                 the trading book or in the banking book.


                                
Introduction
50.1   This section provides banks with guidance on prudent valuation for positions that
       are accounted for at fair value, whether they are in the trading book or in the
       banking book. This guidance is especially important for positions without actual
       market prices or observable inputs to valuation, as well as less liquid positions
       which raise supervisory concerns about prudent valuation. The valuation
       guidance set forth below is not intended to require banks to change valuation
       procedures for financial reporting purposes. Supervisors should assess a bank’s
       valuation procedures for consistency with this guidance. One fact in a supervisor’s
       assessment of whether a bank must take a valuation adjustment for regulatory
       purposes under CAP50.11 to CAP50.14 should be the degree of consistency
       between the bank’s valuation procedures and these guidelines.

50.2   A framework for prudent valuation practices should at a minimum include the
       following.


Systems and controls
50.3   Banks must establish and maintain adequate systems and controls sufficient to
       give management and supervisors the confidence that their valuation estimates
       are prudent and reliable. These systems must be integrated with other risk
       management systems within the organisation (such as credit analysis). Such
       systems must include:

       (1) Documented policies and procedures for the process of valuation. This
           includes clearly defined responsibilities of the various areas involved in the
           determination of the valuation, sources of market information and review of
           their appropriateness, guidelines for the use of unobservable inputs
           reflecting the bank’s assumptions of what market participants would use in
           pricing the position, frequency of independent valuation, timing of closing
           prices, procedures for adjusting valuations, end of the month and ad-hoc
           verification procedures; and

       (2) Clear and independent (ie independent of front office) reporting lines for the
           department accountable for the valuation process. The reporting line should
           ultimately be to a main board executive director.


Valuation methodologies

Marking to market




50.4   Marking-to-market is at least the daily valuation of positions at readily available
       close out prices that are sourced independently. Examples of readily available
       close out prices include exchange prices, screen prices, or quotes from several
       independent reputable brokers.

50.5   Banks must mark-to-market as much as possible. The more prudent side of bid
       /offer should be used unless the institution is a significant market-maker in a
       particular position type and it can close out at mid-market. Banks should
       maximise the use of relevant observable inputs and minimise the use of
       unobservable inputs when estimating fair value using a valuation technique.
       However, observable inputs or transactions may not be relevant, such as in a
       forced liquidation or distressed sale, or transactions may not be observable, such
       as when markets are inactive. In such cases, the observable data should be
       considered, but may not be determinative.


Marking to model

50.6   Only where marking-to-market is not possible should banks mark-to-model, but
       this must be demonstrated to be prudent. Marking-to-model is defined as any
       valuation which has to be benchmarked, extrapolated or otherwise calculated
       from a market input. When marking to model, an extra degree of conservatism is
       appropriate. Supervisory authorities will consider the following in assessing
       whether a mark-to-model valuation is prudent:

       (1) Senior management should be aware of the elements of the trading book or
           other fair-valued positions which are subject to mark to model and should
           understand the materiality of the uncertainty this creates in the reporting of
           the risk/performance of the business.

       (2) Market inputs should be sourced, to the extent possible, in line with market
           prices (as discussed above). The appropriateness of the market inputs for the
           particular position being valued should be reviewed regularly.

       (3) Where available, generally accepted valuation methodologies for particular
           products should be used as far as possible.

       (4) Where the model is developed by the institution itself, it should be based on
           appropriate assumptions, which have been assessed and challenged by
           suitably qualified parties independent of the development process. The
           model should be developed or approved independently of the front office. It
           should be independently tested. This includes validating the mathematics,
           the assumptions and the software implementation.




       (5) There should be formal change control procedures in place and a secure
           copy of the model should be held and periodically used to check valuations.

       (6) Risk management should be aware of the weaknesses of the models used
           and how best to reflect those in the valuation output.

       (7) The model should be subject to periodic review to determine the accuracy of
           its performance (eg assessing continued appropriateness of the assumptions,
           analysis of profit and loss versus risk factors, comparison of actual close out
           values to model outputs).

       (8) Valuation adjustments should be made as appropriate, for example, to cover
           the uncertainty of the model valuation (see also valuation adjustments in
           CAP50.9 to CAP50.14.


Independent price verification

50.7   Independent price verification is distinct from daily mark-to-market. It is the
       process by which market prices or model inputs are regularly verified for
       accuracy. While daily marking-to-market may be performed by dealers,
       verification of market prices or model inputs should be performed by a unit
       independent of the dealing room, at least monthly (or, depending on the nature
       of the market/trading activity, more frequently). It need not be performed as
       frequently as daily mark-to-market, since the objective, ie independent, marking
       of positions, should reveal any error or bias in pricing, which should result in the
       elimination of inaccurate daily marks.

50.8   Independent price verification entails a higher standard of accuracy in that the
       market prices or model inputs are used to determine profit and loss figures,
       whereas daily marks are used primarily for management reporting in between
       reporting dates. For independent price verification, where pricing sources are
       more subjective, eg only one available broker quote, prudent measures such as
       valuation adjustments may be appropriate.


Valuation adjustments
50.9   As part of their procedures for marking to market, banks must establish and
       maintain procedures for considering valuation adjustments. Supervisory
       authorities expect banks using third-party valuations to consider whether
       valuation adjustments are necessary. Such considerations are also necessary
       when marking to model.




50.10
        Supervisory authorities expect the following valuation adjustments/reserves to be
        formally considered at a minimum: unearned credit spreads, close-out costs,
        operational risks, early termination, investing and funding costs, and future
        administrative costs and, where appropriate, model risk.


        FAQ
        FAQ1       Should valuation adjustments be performed on a portfolio level (ie
                   adjustments to be made in the form of a reserve for a portfolio of
                   exposures and not to be reflected in the valuation of the individual
                   transactions) or on a transaction level (ie adjustments to be reflected in
                   the valuation of the individual transactions)?

                   Supervisors expect that the valuation adjustment will be considered for
                   positions individually.



Adjustment to the current valuation of less liquid positions for
regulatory capital purposes
50.11 Banks must establish and maintain procedures for judging the necessity of and
      calculating an adjustment to the current valuation of less liquid positions for
      regulatory capital purposes. This adjustment may be in addition to any changes
      to the value of the position required for financial reporting purposes and should
      be designed to reflect the illiquidity of the position. Supervisory authorities
      expect banks to consider the need for an adjustment to a position’s valuation to
      reflect current illiquidity whether the position is marked to market using market
      prices or observable inputs, third-party valuations or marked to model.




50.12 Bearing in mind that the assumptions made about liquidity in the market risk
      capital requirement may not be consistent with the bank’s ability to sell or hedge
      out less liquid positions, where appropriate, banks must take an adjustment to
      the current valuation of these positions, and review their continued
      appropriateness on an on-going basis. Reduced liquidity may have arisen from
      market events. Additionally, close-out prices for concentrated positions and/or
      stale positions should be considered in establishing the adjustment. Banks must
      consider all relevant factors when determining the appropriateness of the
      adjustment for less liquid positions. These factors may include, but are not limited
      to, the amount of time it would take to hedge out the position/risks within the
      position, the average volatility of bid/offer spreads, the availability of
      independent market quotes (number and identity of market-makers), the average
      and volatility of trading volumes (including trading volumes during periods of
      market stress), market concentrations, the ageing of positions, the extent to
       which valuation relies on marking-to-model, and the impact of other model risks
       not included in CAP50.11.

50.13 For complex products including, but not limited to, securitisation exposures and
      n-th-to-default credit derivatives, banks must explicitly assess the need for
      valuation adjustments to reflect two forms of model risk: the model risk
      associated with using a possibly incorrect valuation methodology; and the risk
      associated with using unobservable (and possibly incorrect) calibration
      parameters in the valuation model.

50.14 The adjustment to the current valuation of less liquid positions made under
      CAP50.12 must impact Tier 1 regulatory capital and may exceed those valuation
      adjustments made under financial reporting standards and CAP50.9 and CAP50.10
      .




                                 CAP90
                                 Transitional arrangements
                                 This chapter describes transitional arrangements
                                 applying to certain capital instruments, as well as
                                 transitional arrangements that may be used by
                                 jurisdictions applying expected credit loss
                                 accounting.

Transitional arrangements for certain capital instruments
90.1   Capital instruments that no longer qualify as non-common equity Tier 1 or Tier 2
       capital are phased out beginning 1 January 2013. Fixing the base at the nominal
       amount of such instruments outstanding on 1 January 2013, their recognition is
       capped at 90% from 1 January 2013, with the cap reducing by 10 percentage
       points in each subsequent year.

90.2   This cap is applied to Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 separately and refers to the
       total amount of instruments outstanding that no longer meet the relevant entry
       criteria. To the extent an instrument is redeemed, or its recognition in capital is
       amortised, after 1 January 2013, the nominal amount serving as the base is not
       reduced.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        If a Tier 2 instrument eligible for transitional arrangements begins its
                   final five-year amortisation period prior to 1 January 2013, does it
                   carry on amortising at a rate of 20% per annum after 1 January 2013?

                   Individual instruments continue to be amortised at a rate of 20% per
                   year while the aggregate cap is reduced at a rate of 10% per year.

       FAQ2        Can ineligible Tier 1 instruments be “cascaded” into Tier 2 and, if so,
                   can a firm elect to do this at 1 January 2013 or a later date?

                   CAP90.1 states that, “Capital instruments that no longer qualify as non-
                   common equity Tier 1 capital or Tier 2 capital are phased out
                   beginning 1 January 2013. Fixing the base at the nominal amount of
                   such instruments outstanding on 1 January 2013, their recognition is
                   capped at 90% from 1 January 2013, with the cap reducing by 10
                   percentage points in each subsequent year.” This rule does not prohibit
                   instruments, in whole or in part, that exceed the cap on recognition in
                   Additional Tier 1 being reallocated to Tier 2 if they meet all of the
                   criteria for inclusion in Tier 2 that apply from 1 January 2013. Any
                   reallocation will have no effect on the calculation of the cap itself. This
                   means that instruments that are phased out of Additional Tier 1 and
                   do not meet the point-of-non-viability requirements in CAP10.11(16)
                   will not be permitted to be “cascaded” into Tier 2, as Tier 2 is required
                   to meet the point-of-non-viability requirements in CAP10.16(10).

       FAQ3        Some Tier 1 and Tier 2 instruments were not eligible to be recognised
                   as such under Basel II because they exceeded the relevant limits for
                   recognition (eg 15% innovative limit or Tier 2 limit). Can amounts that               exceeded these limits be included in the base for the transitional
               arrangements established in CAP90.1 and CAP90.2?

               No. The base for the transitional arrangements should reflect the
               outstanding amount that is eligible to be included in the relevant tier
               of capital under the national rules applied on 31 December 2012.

     FAQ4      If a Tier 2 instrument eligible for grandfathering begins its final five-
               year amortisation period prior to 1 January 2013, is the full nominal
               amount or the amortised amount used in fixing the base for
               transitional arrangements?

               For Tier 2 instruments that have begun to amortise before 1 January
               2013, the base for transitional arrangements should take into account
               the amortised amount, not the full nominal amount.

     FAQ5      What happens to share premium (stock surplus) associated with
               instruments eligible for the transitional arrangements?

               Share premium (stock surplus) only meets the entry criteria if it is
               related to an instrument that meets the entry criteria. The share
               premium of instruments that do not meet the entry criteria, but which
               are eligible for the transitional arrangements, should instead be
               included in the base for the transitional arrangements.

     FAQ6      How do the transitional arrangements apply to instruments
               denominated in a foreign currency along with any potential hedges of
               the nominal amount of those instruments?

               The total amount of such instruments that no longer meet the criteria
               for inclusion in the relevant tier of capital are included in the base and
               limited by the cap from 1 January 2013 onwards. To calculate the base,
               instruments denominated in foreign currency that no longer qualify for
               inclusion in the relevant tier of capital should be included using their
               value in the reporting currency of the bank as at 1 January 2013. The
               base will therefore be fixed in the reporting currency of the bank
               throughout the transitional period.

               During the transitional period instruments denominated in a foreign
               currency should be valued as they are reported on the balance sheet of
               the bank at the relevant reporting date (adjusting for any amortisation
               in the case of Tier 2 instruments) and, along with all other instruments
               that no longer meet the criteria for inclusion in the relevant tier of
               capital, are subject to the cap.



90.3   In addition, instruments with an incentive to be redeemed are treated as follows:

       (1) For an instrument that has a call and a step-up prior to 1 January 2013 (or
           another incentive to be redeemed), if the instrument is not called at its
           effective maturity date and on a forward-looking basis meets the new criteria
           for inclusion in Tier 1 or Tier 2, it continues to be recognised in that tier of
           capital.

       (2) For an instrument that has a call and a step-up on or after 1 January 2013 (or
           another incentive to be redeemed), if the instrument is not called at its
           effective maturity date and on a forward-looking basis meets the new criteria
           for inclusion in Tier 1 or Tier 2, it continues to be recognised in that tier of
           capital. After the call date, the full amount of a Tier 1 instrument, or the
           applicable amortised amount of a Tier 2 instrument, is recognised. Prior to
           the effective maturity date, the instrument would be considered an
           “instrument that no longer qualifies as Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2” and
           therefore is phased out from 1 January 2013.

       (3) For an instrument that has a call and a step-up between 12 September 2010
           and 1 January 2013 (or another incentive to be redeemed), if the instrument
           is not called at its effective maturity date and on a forward-looking basis
           does not meet the new criteria for inclusion in Tier 1 or Tier 2, it is fully
           derecognised in that tier of regulatory capital from 1 January 2013 and not
           included in the base for the transitional arrangements.

       (4) For an instrument that has a call and a step-up on or after 1 January 2013 (or
           another incentive to be redeemed), if the instrument is not called at its
           effective maturity date and on a forward looking basis does not meet the
           new criteria for inclusion in Tier 1 or Tier 2, it is derecognised in that tier of
           regulatory capital from the effective maturity date. Prior to the effective
           maturity date, the instrument would be considered an “instrument that no
           longer qualifies as Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2” and therefore is phased out
           from 1 January 2013.

       (5) For an instrument that had a call and a step-up on or prior to 12 September
           2010 (or another incentive to be redeemed), if the instrument was not called
           at its effective maturity date and on a forward looking basis does not meet
           the new criteria for inclusion in Tier 1 or Tier 2, it is considered an
           “instrument that no longer qualifies as Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2” and
           therefore is phased out from 1 January 2013.



     FAQ
     FAQ1      Does this mean that if there was a Tier 1 security that met all the
               requirements to qualify for Additional Tier 1 capital on a forward-
               looking basis after its call date and it is callable on 31 December 2014,
               on 1 January 2014, the security would count at 80% of notional but on
               1 January 2015, if not called, it would count as 100% of Tier 1 capital?

               Yes. However, it should be noted that the base that sets a cap on the
               instruments that may be included applies to all outstanding
               instruments that no longer qualify as non-common equity Tier 1. This
               means, for example, that if other non-qualifying Tier 1 instruments are
               repaid during 2014 it is possible for the instrument to receive
               recognition in excess of 80% during 2014.

     FAQ2      If an instrument issued before 12 September 2010 has an incentive to
               redeem and does not fulfil the non-viability requirement in CAP10.11
               (16) or CAP10.16(10), but is otherwise compliant on a forward-looking
               basis, is it eligible for transitional arrangements?

               If an instrument has an effective maturity date that occurs before 1
               January 2013 and is not called, and complies with the entry criteria
               except for the non-viability requirement on 1 January 2013, then it is
               eligible for transitional arrangements.

               If the instrument has an effective maturity date that occurs after 1
               January 2013, and therefore it does not comply with the entry criteria
               (including the non-viability requirement) as on 1 January 2013, it
               should be phased out until its effective maturity date and derecognised
               after that date.

     FAQ3      Assume that on 1 January 2013 a bank has $100m of non-compliant
               Tier 1 securities outstanding. By 1 January 2017, the capital
               recognition has been reduced to 50% (10% per year starting at 90% on
               1 January 2013). Now assume that $50m of the Tier 1 securities have
               been called between 2013 and the end of 2016 – leaving $50m
               outstanding. Does the transitional arrangement mean the bank can
               fully recognise the remaining $50m of capital on 1 January 2017?

               Yes.

     FAQ4      For instruments with an incentive to redeem after 1 January 2013,
               CAP90.3 permits them to be included in capital after their call/step-up
               date if they meet the CAP10 criteria on a forward-looking basis. Does
               this forward looking basis mean that they need to meet the loss
               absorbency criteria set out in CAP10.11(16) and CAP10.16(10)?
                   Yes, they need to meet all CAP10 criteria on a forward looking basis or
                   they will be derecognised from capital after their call/step-up date.


90.4   Capital instruments that do not meet the criteria for inclusion in Common Equity
       Tier 1 are excluded from Common Equity Tier 1 as of 1 January 2013. However,
       instruments meeting the following three conditions are phased out over the same
       horizon described in CAP90.1:

       (1) they are issued by a non-joint stock company;

       (2) they are treated as equity under the prevailing accounting standards; and

       (3) they receive unlimited recognition as part of Tier 1 capital under current
           national banking law.


 Non-joint stock companies were not addressed in the Basel Committee’
                   s 1998 agreement on instruments eligible for inclusion as they do not
                   issue voting common shares.


90.5   The following instruments qualify for the above transition arrangements:

       (1) instruments issued before 12 September 2010; and

       (2) instruments issued prior to 1 January 2013 that meet all of the entry criteria
           for Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 apart from the non-viability criteria in CAP10.11
           (16) and CAP10.16(10).




       FAQ
       FAQ1       If the contractual terms of an instrument issued before 12 September
                  2010 are amended to remove features that make it ineligible for
                  grandfathering (eg deletion of call options or other incentives to
                  redeem) but without making the instrument fully compliant with the
                  Basel III definition of capital, can the instrument be counted as eligible
                  grandfathered regulatory capital (subject to the limits in CAP90.1)?

                  A material change in the terms and conditions of a pre-existing
                  instrument shall be considered in the same way as the issuance of a
                  new instrument. This means that the instrument may only be included
                  in regulatory capital if the revised terms and conditions meet the Basel
                  III eligibility criteria in full. Revisions to terms and conditions cannot be
                  used to extend grandfathering arrangements. This reasoning holds true
                  for all types of capital instruments.


90.6   Public sector capital injections made before 16 December 2010 and that do not
       comply with the eligibility criteria in CAP10 receive no recognition in regulatory
       capital after 1 January 2018. The transitional arrangements in CAP90.1 to CAP90.4
       do not apply to these instruments.


Transitional arrangements for expected credit loss accounting
90.7   The Committee has determined that it may be appropriate for a jurisdiction to
       introduce a transitional arrangement for the impact on regulatory capital from
       the application of expected credit loss (ECL) accounting. Jurisdictions applying a
       transitional arrangement must implement such an arrangement as follows.

90.8   The transitional arrangement must apply only to provisions that are “new” under
       an ECL accounting model. “New” provisions are provisions which do not exist
       under accounting approaches applied prior to the adoption of an ECL accounting
       model.

90.9   The transitional arrangement must adjust Common Equity Tier 1 capital. Where
       there is a reduction in Common Equity Tier 1 capital due to new provisions, net of
       tax effect, upon adoption of an ECL accounting model, the decline in Common
       Equity Tier 1 capital (the “transitional adjustment amount”) must be partially
       included (ie added back) to Common Equity Tier 1 capital over a number of years
       (the “transition period”) commencing on the effective date of the transition to
       ECL accounting.

90.10 Jurisdictions must choose whether banks under their supervision determine the
      transitional adjustment amount throughout the transition period by either:




       (1) calculating it just once, at the effective date of the transition to ECL
           accounting (ie static approach); or

       (2) recalculating it periodically to reflect the evolution of a bank’s ECL provisions
           within the transition period (ie dynamic approach).

90.11 The transitional adjustment amount may be calculated based on the impact on
      Common Equity Tier 1 capital upon adoption of an ECL accounting model or
      from accounting provisions disclosed before and after the adoption of an ECL
      accounting model.

90.12 For internal ratings-based (IRB) portfolios, the calculation of transitional
      adjustment amounts must take account of the shortfall of the stock of provisions
      to expected losses, as set out in CAP30.13. In some circumstances, an increase in
      provisions will not be fully reflected in IRB Common Equity Tier 1 capital.

90.13 The transition period commences from the date upon which a bank adopts ECL
      accounting in a jurisdiction that requires or permits the implementation of an ECL
      accounting framework. The transition period must be no more than five years.

90.14 During the transition period, the transitional adjustment amount will be partially
      included in (ie added back to) Common Equity Tier 1 capital. A fraction of the
      transitional adjustment amount (based on the number of years in the transition
      period) will be included in Common Equity Tier 1 capital during the first year of
      the transition period, with the proportion included in Common Equity Tier 1
      capital phased out each year thereafter during the course of the transition period
      on a straight line basis. The impact of ECL provisions on Common Equity Tier 1
      capital must not be fully neutralised during the transition period.

90.15 The transitional adjustment amount included in Common Equity Tier 1 capital
      each year during the transition period must be taken through to other measures
      of capital as appropriate (eg Tier 1 capital and total capital), and hence to the
      calculation of the leverage ratio and of large exposures limits.

90.16 Jurisdictions must choose between applying the consequential adjustments listed
      below or a simpler approach to ensure that banks do not receive inappropriate
      capital relief. (An example of a simpler approach that would not provide
      inappropriate capital relief would be amortising the transitional arrangement
      more rapidly than otherwise.)

       (1) Account should be taken of tax effects in calculating the impact of ECL
           accounting on Common Equity Tier 1 capital.




       (2) Any deferred tax asset (DTA) arising from a temporary difference associated
           with a non-deducted provision amount must be disregarded for regulatory
           purposes during the transitional period. This means that such DTA amount
           must not be considered for Common Equity Tier 1 capital, and in return must
           not be subject to deduction from Common Equity Tier 1 capital and must
           not be subject to risk weighting, as applicable.

       (3) An accounting provision amount not deducted from Common Equity Tier 1
           capital should not:

           (a) be included in Tier 2 capital, even if the provision meets the definition of
               “general” or “excess” provisions;

           (b) reduce exposure amounts in the standardised approach even if it meets
               the definition of a “specific” provision; or

           (c)   reduce the total exposure measure in the leverage ratio.

90.17 Jurisdictions must publish details of any transitional arrangement applied, the
      rationale for it, and its implications for supervision of banks (eg whether
      supervisory decisions will be based solely on regulatory metrics which
      incorporate the effect of the transitional arrangement). Jurisdictions that choose
      to implement a transitional arrangement must require their banks to disclose, as
      set out in DIS20:

       (1) whether a transitional arrangement is applied; and

       (2) the impact on the bank’s regulatory capital and leverage ratios compared to
           the bank’s “fully loaded” capital and leverage ratios had the transitional
           arrangements not been applied.

In addition to the required disclosures under Pillar 3, banks may also
                   provide this information prominently on their website.


90.18 In light of the Covid-19 pandemic, the Committee agreed on the following
      amendments to the transitional arrangements for the regulatory capital
      treatment of ECLs set out in CAP90.7 to CAP90.17:

       (1) Jurisdictions may apply the existing transitional arrangements, even if they
           were not initially implemented when banks first adopted the ECL model.
           They may also choose to apply the alternative transition set out in point (4)
           below.




      (2) Jurisdictions may permit banks to switch from the static approach to the
          dynamic approach to determine the transitional adjustment amount (even if
          they have previously switched the approach that they use).

      (3) In addition to the two existing approaches to calculate the transitional
          adjustment amount (the static and dynamic approach), jurisdictions may use
          alternative methodologies that aim to approximate the cumulative difference
          between provisions under the ECL accounting model and provisions under
          the prior incurred loss accounting model.

      (4) Irrespective of when a jurisdiction initially started to apply transitional
          arrangements, for the 2 year period comprising the years 2020 and 2021,
          jurisdictions may allow banks to add-back up to 100% of the transitional
          adjustment amount to CET1. The "add-back" amount must then be phased-
          out on a straight line basis over the subsequent 3 years.

 Jurisdictions that have already implemented the transitional
                  arrangements may choose to add back less than 100% during 2020
                  and 2021, or take other measures to prevent the add-back from
                  including ECL amounts established before the outbreak of Covid-19.


90.19 The disclosure requirements of CAP90.17 also apply when the modified
      transitional arrangements set out in CAP90.18 are used.




                                 CAP99
                                 Application guidance
                                 This chapter contains supporting information on
                                 the definition of indirect and synthetic holdings,
                                 the calculation of minority interests and the
                                 application of transitional arrangements.


                               
Minority interest illustrative example
99.1   Minority interest receives limited recognition in regulatory capital, as described in
       CAP10.20 to CAP10.26. The following paragraphs provide an illustrative example
       of how to calculate the amount eligible for inclusion.

99.2   A banking group consists of two legal entities that are both banks. Bank P is the
       parent and Bank S is the subsidiary and their unconsolidated balance sheets are
       set out below.

                     Bank P balance sheet                        Bank S balance sheet


        Assets                                                Assets

        Loans to customers                              100   Loans to customers            150

        Investment in Common Equity Tier 1 of Bank S      7

        Investment in the Additional Tier 1 of Bank S     4

        Investment in the Tier 2 of Bank S                2

        Liabilities and equity                                Liabilities and equity

        Depositors                                       70   Depositors                    127

        Tier 2                                           10   Tier 2                          8

        Additional Tier 1                                 7   Additional Tier 1               5

        Common equity                                    26   Common equity                  10



99.3   The balance sheet of Bank P shows that in addition to its loans to customers, it
       owns 70% of the common shares of Bank S, 80% of the Additional Tier 1 of Bank
       S and 25% of the Tier 2 capital of Bank S. The ownership of the capital of Bank S
       is therefore as follows:




                                                Capital issued by Bank S


                                          Amount issued to parent         Amount issued to  third parties  Total
                                                              

                                               (Bank P)


        Common Equity Tier 1                       7                       3           10

        Additional Tier 1                          4                       1           5

        Tier 1                                    11                       4           15

        Tier 2                                     2                       6           8

        Total capital                             13                       10          23




99.4   The consolidated balance sheet of the banking group is set out below:

                                     Consolidated balance sheet


        Assets

        Loans to customers                                                            250

        Liabilities and equity

        Depositors                                                                    197

        Tier 2 issued by subsidiary to third parties                                   6

        Tier 2 issued by parent                                                       10

        Additional Tier 1 issued by subsidiary to third parties                        1

        Additional Tier 1 issued by parent                                             7

        Common equity issued by subsidiary to third parties (ie minority interest)     3

        Common equity issued by parent                                                26




99.5   For illustrative purposes Bank S is assumed to have risk-weighted assets of 100. In
       this example, the minimum capital requirements of Bank S and the subsidiary’s
       contribution to the consolidated requirements are the same since Bank S does
       not have any loans to Bank P. This means that it is subject to the following

       minimum plus capital conservation buffer requirements and has the following
       surplus capital:

                               Minimum and surplus capital of Bank S


                         Minimum plus capital conservation buffer                   Surplus
                                     

        Common                          7.0                                    3.0
        Equity Tier 1
                                  (= 7.0% of 100)                          (=10 – 7.0)

        Tier 1                          8.5                                    6.5

                                  (= 8.5% of 100)                        (=10 + 5 – 8.5)

        Total capital                  10.5                                   12.5

                                 (= 10.5% of 100)                      (=10 + 5 + 8 – 10.5)



99.6   The following table illustrates how to calculate the amount of capital issued by
       Bank S to include in consolidated capital, following the calculation procedure set
       out in CAP10.20 to CAP10.26:




                     Bank S: amount of capital issued to third parties included in consolidated capital


                                                                 Surplus attributable to third parties (ie amount excluded from consolidated capital)
                                     Amount issued to third parties                              Amount included in consolidated capital
                          Total amount issued
                                                              
                                             Surplus
                                                             
                         
                                             (c)                                    
                                                                 (d)
                          (a)
                                     (b)                                                   
                                                                

        Common Equity Tier 1  
             10         3              3.0          0.90                       2.10
        

        Tier 1            15         4              6.5          1.73                       2.27

        Total capital
                          23         10             12.5         5.43                       4.57
       



99.7   The following table summarises the components of capital for the consolidated
       group based on the amounts calculated in the table above. Additional Tier 1 is
       calculated as the difference between Common Equity Tier 1 and Tier 1 and Tier 2
       is the difference between Total Capital and Tier 1.

Total amount issued by parent (all of which is to be included in consolidated capital)
Amount issued by subsidiaries to third parties to be included in consolidated capital
Total amount issued by parent and subsidiary to be included in consolidated capital

        Common Equity Tier 1
                                     26                            2.10                     28.10
        

        Additional Tier 1
                                     7                             0.17                      7.17
        

        Tier 1                       33                            2.27                     35.27

        Tier 2                       10                            2.30                     12.30

        Total capital                43                            4.57                     47.57




 
Indirect and synthetic holdings
99.8   CAP30.18 to CAP30.31 describes the regulatory adjustments applied to a bank’s
       investments in its own capital or other total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC)
       instruments or those of other financial entities, even if they do not have direct
       holdings. More specifically, these paragraphs require banks to capture the loss
       that a bank would suffer if the capital or TLAC instrument is permanently written
       off, and subject this potential loss to the same treatment as a direct exposure.
       This section defines indirect and synthetic holdings and provides examples.

99.9   An indirect holding arises when a bank invests in an unconsolidated intermediate
       entity that has an exposure to the capital of an unconsolidated bank, financial or
       insurance entity and thus gains an exposure to the capital of that financial
       institution.

99.10 A synthetic holding arises when a bank invests in an instrument where the value
      of the instrument is directly linked to the value of the capital of an
      unconsolidated bank, financial or insurance entity.

99.11 Set out below are some examples of indirect and synthetic holdings to help
      illustrate this treatment:

       (1) The bank has an investment in the capital of an entity that is not
           consolidated for regulatory purposes and is aware that this entity has an
           investment in the capital of a financial institution.

       (2) The bank enters into a total return swap on capital instruments of another
           financial institution.

       (3) The bank provides a guarantee or credit protection to a third party in respect
           of the third party’s investments in the capital of another financial institution.

       (4) The bank owns a call option or has written a put option on the capital
           instruments of another financial institution.

       (5) The bank has entered into a forward purchase agreement on the capital of
           another financial institution.




       FAQ
       FAQ1        What would be the prudential treatment applicable to a financial
                   instrument where a bank commits itself to buy newly issued shares of
                   an insurance company for a given amount should certain events occur?
                   For example, consider the following case. Bank A enters into a contract
                   with Firm B (an insurance company). The contract stipulates that, if
                   any of the three events defined below occurs within the next three
                   years, Bank A must buy for €10 million new shares of Firm B (leading
                   to a capital increase for Firm B). The new shares are generally issued
                   with a discount (eg 5%) on the average market price recorded on the
                   trading days following the event. In such a case, Bank A has to provide
                   the cash to Firm B within a predefined timeline (eg 10 days). Event 1:
                   Firm B incurs a technical loss above a threshold (eg €1m) for a specific
                   event (eg natural catastrophe). Event 2: The loss ratio of a given line of
                   business is higher than 120% for two consecutive semesters. Event 3:
                   The share price of Firm B falls below a given value. Bank A is not
                   allowed to sell the financial instrument resulting from this contract to
                   other entities.

                   CAP30.18 to CAP30.31 provide that investments in the capital of
                   banking, financial and insurance entities include direct, indirect and
                   synthetic holdings of capital instruments. These instruments must be
                   deducted following a corresponding deduction approach (potentially
                   with the application of a threshold). CAP99.8 to CAP99.12 defines
                   indirect and synthetic holdings and provides examples. The transaction
                   described above has to be regarded as a derivative instrument (in this
                   case, a put option) that has a capital instrument (a share) of a financial
                   sector entity as its underlying. Hence, it should be regarded as a
                   synthetic holding to be deducted from Common Equity Tier 1 as per
                   the applicable deduction rules.


99.12 In all cases, the loss that the bank would suffer on the exposures if the capital of
      the financial institution is permanently written-off is to be treated as a direct
      exposure (ie subject to a deduction treatment).


Flowcharts illustrating transitional arrangements
99.13 The flowchart below illustrates the application of transitional arrangements in
      CAP90.1 to CAP90.3 and CAP90.5. “Phase-out” refers to those transitional
      arrangements. “PONV” refers to the non-viability requirements in CAP10.11(16)
      and CAP10.16(10).




99.14 The flowchart below illustrates the application of transitional arrangements in
      CAP90.4, which also sets out the "three conditions" and "phase-out"
      arrangements.




                                 RBC
                                 Risk-based capital
                                 requirements
                                 This standard describes the framework for risk-
                                 based capital requirements.




                                 RBC20
                                 Calculation of minimum risk-
                                 based capital requirements
                                 This chapter sets out the minimum regulatory
                                 capital requirements under the risk-based
                                 framework and how banks must calculate risk-
                                 weighted assets.


                                



Minimum risk-based capital requirements
20.1   Banks must meet the following requirements at all times:

       (1) Common Equity Tier 1 must be at least 4.5% of risk-weighted assets (RWA).

       (2) Tier 1 capital must be at least 6% of RWA.

       (3) Total capital must be at least 8.0% of RWA.


In addition, a Common Equity Tier 1 capital conservation buffer is set
                   at 2.5% of RWA for all banks. Banks may also be subject to a
                   countercyclical capital buffer or higher loss-absorbency requirements
                   for systemically important banks. These buffers are described in RBC30
                   and RBC40.


20.2   The components of capital referred to in RBC20.1 are defined in CAP10 and must
       be used net of regulatory adjustments (defined in CAP30) and subject to the
       transitional arrangements in CAP90. RWA are defined in RBC20.3 and RBC20.4.


Risk-weighted assets
20.3   The Basel framework describes how to calculate RWA for credit risk, market risk
       and operational risk. The requirements for calculating RWA allow banks to use
       different approaches, some of which banks may only use with supervisory
       approval. The nominated approaches of a bank comprise all the approaches that
       the bank is using to calculate regulatory capital requirements, other than those
       approaches used solely for the purpose of the capital floor calculation outlined
       below. The nominated approaches of a bank may include those that it has
       supervisory approval to use and those for which supervisory approval is not
       required.

20.4   The RWA that banks must use to determine compliance with the requirements
       set out in RBC20.1 (and the buffers in RBC30 and RBC40) is the higher of:




       (1) the sum of the following elements:

           (a) RWA for credit risk;

           (b) RWA for market risk; and

           (c)   RWA for operational risk; and

       (2) for banks using the internal ratings-based (IRB) approach for credit risk or
           the Advanced Measurement Approaches (AMA) for operational risk, the sum
           of the elements listed in RBC20.4(1) adjusted as required by RBC20.11 to
           RBC20.16, which describes the capital floor.


Banking book and trading book boundary
20.5   Before a bank can calculate RWA for credit risk and RWA for market risk, it must
       follow the requirements of RBC25 to identify the instruments that are in the
       trading book. The banking book comprises all instruments that are not in the
       trading book and all other assets of the bank (hereafter “banking book
       exposures”).


RWA for credit risk
20.6   RWA for credit risk (including counterparty credit risk) is calculated as the sum of:

       (1) Credit RWA for banking book exposures, except the RWA listed in (2) to (5)
           below, calculated using:

           (a) the standardised approach, as set out in CRE20 to CRE22; or

           (b) the IRB approach, as set out in CRE30 to CRE36.

       (2) RWA for counterparty credit risk arising from banking book exposures and
           from trading book instruments (as specified in CRE55), except the exposures
           listed in (3) to (6) below, using the methods outlined in CRE51.

       (3) Credit RWA for equity investments in funds that are held in the banking
           book calculated using one or more of the approaches set out in CRE60:

           (a) The look-through approach

           (b) The mandate-based approach

           (c)   The fall-back approach




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                              140/1626
       (4) RWA for securitisation exposures held in the banking book, calculated using
           one or more of the approaches set out in CRE40 to CRE44:

           (a) Securitisation Standardised Approach (SEC-SA)

           (b) Securitisation External Ratings-Based Approach (SEC-ERBA)

           (c)   Internal Assessment Approach (IAA)

           (d) Securitisation Internal Ratings-Based Approach (SEC-IRBA)

           (e) A risk weight of 1250% in cases where the bank cannot use (a) to (d)
               above.

       (5) RWA for exposures to central counterparties in the banking book and
           trading book, calculated using the approach set out in CRE54.

       (6) RWA for the risk posed by unsettled transactions and failed trades, where
           these transactions are in the banking book or trading book and are within
           scope of the rules set out in CRE70.

20.7   The approaches listed in RBC20.6 specify how banks must measure the size of
       their exposures (ie the exposure at default) and determine their RWA. Certain
       types of exposures in the banking book and trading book give rise to
       counterparty credit risk for which the measurement of the size of the exposure
       can be complex (see CRE51 for an overview of the counterparty credit risk
       requirements). Therefore, the approaches listed above include, or refer to, the
       following methods available to determine the size of counterparty credit risk
       exposures:

       (1) The standardised approach for measuring counterparty credit risk exposures
           (SA-CCR), set out in CRE52.

       (2) The comprehensive approach, set out in CRE22.40 to CRE22.76, including the
           value at risk (VaR) models approach, set out in CRE22.73 to CRE22.76.

       (3) The internal models method (IMM), set out in CRE53.

20.8   For banks that have supervisory approval to use IMM, RWA for credit risk must be
       calculated as the higher of:

       (1) the sum of elements (1) to (6) in RBC20.6 calculated using IMM with current
           parameter calibrations; and




       (2) the sum of the elements in RBC20.6 using IMM with stressed parameter
           calibrations.


RWA for market risk
20.9   RWA for market risk are calculated as the sum of the following:

       (1) RWA for market risk for instruments in the trading book and for foreign
           exchange risk and commodities risk for exposures in the banking book,
           calculated using:

           (a) the standardised approach, as described in MAR20; or

           (b) the internal models approach set out in MAR30;

       (2) RWA for credit valuation adjustment (CVA) risk for exposures in the trading
           book and banking book, calculated in line with MAR50 using either:

           (a) the standardised approach for CVA; or

           (b) the advanced approach for CVA.


RWA for operational risk
20.10 RWA for operational risk are calculated using one or more of the following
      approaches:

       (1) the Basic Indicator Approach described in OPE20; or

       (2) the standardised approaches described in OPE25; or

       (3) the AMA described in OPE30.


Calculation of the capital floor
20.11 Banks using the IRB approach for credit risk or the AMA for operational risk are
      subject to a capital floor.

20.12 Banks must calculate the difference between

       (1) the floor amount, as defined in RBC20.14, and

       (2) the comparison amount, as defined in RBC20.15.




20.13 If the floor amount is larger, banks must add 12.5 times the difference in
      calculating RWA to the sum of RWA for credit risk, market risk and operational
       risk in order to determine compliance with the minimum capital requirements (as
       described in RBC20.4).

20.14 The floor amount is calculated as 80% of the following sum, all elements of which
      are calculated under the 1988 Accord:

       (1) 8% of RWA; plus

       (2) Tier 1 and Tier 2 deductions; less

       (3) the amount of general provisions that have been recognised as Tier 2 capital.

20.15 The comparison amount is calculated as follows, with all elements calculated
      according to this framework:

       (1) 8% of total RWA; less

       (2) the difference, where positive, between total provisions and expected loss
           amount as described in CRE35); less

       (3) where a bank uses the standardised approach to credit risk for any portion
           of its exposures, general provisions that have been recognised as Tier 2
           capital for that portion; plus

       (4) other Tier 1 and Tier 2 deductions.

20.16 The Committee recognises that floors based on the 1988 Accord will become
      increasingly impractical to implement over time and therefore believes that
      supervisors should have the flexibility to develop appropriate bank-by-bank
      floors, subject to full disclosure of the nature of the floors adopted. Such floors
      may be based on the approach the bank was using before adoption of the IRB
      approach and/or AMA.

20.17 One possible alternative floor, for banks not migrating directly to an IRB
      approach or AMA from rules based on the 1988 Accord, is to calculate the floor
      based on the non-modelling approach used prior to migration to the IRB
      approach or AMA. The prior non-modelling approach must be updated to reflect
      the prevailing Basel capital standards in force at the time of the floor calculation.
      The use of this alternative is subject to supervisory approval.

20.18 Under this alternative, the floor amount defined in RBC20.14 is instead calculated
      as 80% of:




     (1) 8% of the sum of:


         (a) RWA for credit risk, calculated as in RBC20.6 to RBC20.8 but without
             using the IRB approach in RBC20.6(1);

         (b) RWA for market risk, calculated as in RBC20.9; and

         (c)   RWA for operational risk, calculated as in RBC20.10 but without using
               the AMA in RBC20.10(3); plus;

     (2) deductions from capital made under CAP30; less

     (3) the amount of general provisions that may be recognised in Tier 2.




Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                         144/1626
                                 RBC25
                                 Boundary between the
                                 banking book and the trading
                                 book
                                 This chapter sets out guidance on instruments to
                                 be included in the trading book.


25.1   A trading book consists of positions in financial instruments and commodities
       held either with trading intent or in order to hedge other elements of the trading
       book. To be eligible for trading book capital treatment, financial instruments
       must either be free of any restrictive covenants on their tradability or able to be
       hedged completely. In addition, positions should be frequently and accurately
       valued, and the portfolio should be actively managed.

25.2   A financial instrument is any contract that gives rise to both a financial asset of
       one entity and a financial liability or equity instrument of another entity. Financial
       instruments include both primary financial instruments (or cash instruments) and
       derivative financial instruments. A financial asset is any asset that is cash, the right
       to receive cash or another financial asset; or the contractual right to exchange
       financial assets on potentially favourable terms, or an equity instrument. A
       financial liability is the contractual obligation to deliver cash or another financial
       asset or to exchange financial liabilities under conditions that are potentially
       unfavourable.

25.3   Positions held with trading intent are those held intentionally for short-term
       resale and/or with the intent of benefiting from actual or expected short-term
       price movements or to lock in arbitrage profits, and may include for example
       proprietary positions, positions arising from client servicing (eg matched principal
       broking) and market-making.

25.4   Banks must have clearly defined policies and procedures for determining which
       exposures to include in, and to exclude from, the trading book for purposes of
       calculating their regulatory capital, to ensure compliance with the criteria for
       trading book set forth in RBC25 and taking into account the bank’s risk
       management capabilities and practices. Compliance with these policies and
       procedures must be fully documented and subject to periodic internal audit.

25.5   These policies and procedures should, at a minimum, address the general
       considerations listed below. The list below is not intended to provide a series of
       tests that a product or group of related products must pass to be eligible for
       inclusion in the trading book. Rather, the list provides a minimum set of key
       points that must be addressed by the policies and procedures for overall
       management of a firm’s trading book:

       (1) the activities the bank considers to be trading and as constituting part of the
           trading book for regulatory capital purposes;

       (2) the extent to which an exposure can be marked-to-market daily by reference
           to an active, liquid two-way market;




       (3) for exposures that are marked-to-model, the extent to which the bank can:

           (a) identify the material risks of the exposure;

           (b) hedge the material risks of the exposure and the extent to which
               hedging instruments would have an active, liquid two-way market;

           (c)   derive reliable estimates for the key assumptions and parameters used
                 in the model.

       (4) The extent to which the bank can and is required to generate valuations for
           the exposure that can be validated externally in a consistent manner;

       (5) The extent to which legal restrictions or other operational requirements
           would impede the bank’s ability to effect an immediate liquidation of the
           exposure;

       (6) The extent to which the bank is required to, and can, actively risk manage
           the exposure within its trading operations; and

       (7) The extent to which the bank may transfer risk or exposures between the
           banking and the trading books and criteria for such transfers.

25.6   The following will be the basic requirements for positions eligible to receive
       trading book capital treatment.

       (1) Clearly documented trading strategy for the position/instrument or
           portfolios, approved by senior management (which would include expected
           holding horizon).




       (2) Clearly defined policies and procedures for the active management of the
           position, which must include:

           (a) positions are managed on a trading desk;

           (b) position limits are set and monitored for appropriateness;

           (c)   dealers have the autonomy to enter into/manage the position within
                 agreed limits and according to the agreed strategy;

           (d) positions are marked to market at least daily and when marking to
               model the parameters must be assessed on a daily basis;

           (e) positions are reported to senior management as an integral part of the
               institution’s risk management process; and

           (f)   positions are actively monitored with reference to market information
                 sources (assessment should be made of the market liquidity or the
                 ability to hedge positions or the portfolio risk profiles). This would
                 include assessing the quality and availability of market inputs to the
                 valuation process, level of market turnover, sizes of positions traded in
                 the market, etc

       (3) Clearly defined policy and procedures to monitor the positions against the
           bank’s trading strategy including the monitoring of turnover and stale
           positions in the bank’s trading book.

25.7   It is the Committee’s view that, at the present time, open equity stakes in hedge
       funds, private equity investments, positions in a securitisation warehouse and real
       estate holdings do not meet the definition of the trading book, owing to
       significant constraints on the ability of banks to liquidate these positions and
       value them reliably on a daily basis.

25.8   When a bank hedges a banking book credit risk exposure using a credit
       derivative booked in its trading book (ie using an internal hedge), the banking
       book exposure is not deemed to be hedged for capital purposes unless the bank
       purchases from an eligible third party protection provider a credit derivative
       meeting the requirements of CRE22.86 vis-à-vis the banking book exposure.
       Where such third party protection is purchased and is recognised as a hedge of a
       banking book exposure for regulatory capital purposes, neither the internal nor
       external credit derivative hedge would be included in the trading book for
       regulatory capital purposes.




25.9   Term trading-related repo-style transactions that a bank accounts for in its
       banking book may be included in the bank’s trading book for regulatory capital
       purposes so long as all such repo-style transactions are included. For this

       purpose, trading-related repo-style transactions are defined as only those that
       meet the requirements of RBC25.3 and RBC25.6 and both legs are in the form of
       either cash or securities includable in the trading book. Regardless of where they
       are booked, all repo-style transactions are subject to a banking book
       counterparty credit risk charge.




                                 RBC30
                                 Buffers above the regulatory
                                 minimum
                                 This chapter describes buffers that banks are
                                 expected to maintain above the minimum risk-
                                 based capital requirements, as well as the capital
                                 conservation requirements that apply to banks
                                 that do not maintain such buffers.


                                 
Capital conservation buffer
30.1   This chapter outlines the operation of the capital conservation buffer, which is
       designed to ensure that banks build up capital buffers outside periods of stress
       which can be drawn down as losses are incurred. The requirement is based on
       simple capital conservation rules designed to avoid breaches of minimum capital
       requirements.

30.2   A capital conservation buffer of 2.5%, comprised of Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1),
       is established above the regulatory minimum capital requirement. Capital
       distribution constraints will be imposed on a bank when capital levels fall within
       this range. Banks will be able to conduct business as normal when their capital
       levels fall into the conservation range as they experience losses. The constraints
       imposed only relate to distributions, not the operation of the bank.

Common Equity Tier 1 must first be used to meet the minimum capital
                   and total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) requirements if necessary
                   (including the 6% Tier 1, 8% Total capital requirements), before the
                   remainder can contribute to the capital conservation buffer.


30.3   The distribution constraints imposed on banks when their capital levels fall into
       the range increase as the banks’ capital levels approach the minimum
       requirements. By design, the constraints imposed on banks with capital levels at
       the top of the range would be minimal. This reflects an expectation that banks’
       capital levels will from time to time fall into this range. The Basel Committee does
       not wish to impose constraints for entering the range that would be so restrictive
       as to result in the range being viewed as establishing a new minimum capital
       requirement.




30.4   The table below shows the minimum capital conservation ratios a bank must
       meet at various levels of CET1 capital ratios. The applicable conservation
       standards must be recalculated at each distribution date. For example, a bank
       with a CET1 capital ratio in the range of 5.125% to 5.75% is required to conserve
       80% of its earnings in the subsequent payment period (ie pay out no more than
       20% in terms of dividends, share buybacks and discretionary bonus payments). If
       the bank wants to make payments in excess of the constraints imposed by this
       regime, it would have the option of raising capital in the private sector equal to
       the amount above the constraint which it wishes to distribute. This would be
       discussed with the bank’s supervisor as part of the capital planning process. The
       CET1 ratio includes amounts used to meet the 4.5% minimum CET1 requirement,
       but excludes any additional CET1 needed to meet the 6% Tier 1 and 8% Total
       Capital requirements, and also excludes any CET1 needed to meet the total loss-
       absorbing capacity (TLAC) requirement. For example, a bank with 8% CET1 and
       no Additional Tier 1 or Tier 2 capital, that has 10% of non-regulatory-capital TLAC
       instruments, would meet its minimum risk-based capital and risk-based TLAC
       requirements, but would have a zero conservation buffer and therefore be
       subject to the 100% constraint on capital distributions.

        Individual bank minimum capital conservation standards


                                                      Minimum Capital Conservation Ratios (expressed as a percentage of earnings)
                      CET1 Ratio
                                                     

                    4.5% - 5.125%                                    100%

                   >5.125% - 5.75%                                    80%

                   >5.75% - 6.375%                                    60%

                    >6.375% - 7.0%                                    40%

                        > 7.0%                                        0%




       FAQ
       FAQ1       RBC30.4 shows the minimum capital conservation ratios a bank must
                  meet at various CET1 ratios. RBC30.5(4) states that the capital
                  conservation buffer “must be capable of being drawn down”, but that
                  “banks should not choose in normal times to operate in the buffer
                  range simply to compete with other banks and win market share”. Are
                  the following interpretations correct, despite implying some
                  discontinuities in the levels of capital conservation? (a) A non-global
                  systemically important bank (G-SIB) with a CET1 ratio between 5.125%
                  and 5.75% may distribute up to 20% of its earnings, provided that in
                  doing so its CET1 ratio does not fall below 5.125%, ie a bank may only
                  fall into the final quartile of the capital conservation buffer as a result
                  of making losses, rather than distributions. (b) A non-G-SIB with a
                  10.51% CET1 ratio and no Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital (ie
                  meeting minimum capital and buffer requirements solely with CET1)
                  may make distributions equivalent to only 0.01% of risk-weighted
                  assets (RWA), while a bank with a CET1 ratio of 10.45% (and no
                  Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital) may distribute up to 60% of its
                  earnings, providing its CET1 ratio does not fall into the next quartile of
                  the buffer.

                  The limits on distributions set out in the Basel III buffers framework are
                  not intended to operate as set out in interpretations (a) and (b). As
                  stated in RBC30.3, capital buffers are not intended to be viewed as a
                  minimum capital requirement. By design, the constraints imposed on
                  banks with capital levels at the top of the range are minimal and the
                  Committee expects that banks’ capital levels will, where necessary, be
                  allowed to fall into the buffer range. The capital conservation ratios set
                  out in RBC30.4 need only take into account the current CET1 ratio of a
                  bank (ie before the next distribution is made). Nonetheless, banks
                  should discuss proposed distributions with their supervisors, who will
                  consider these in the light of banks’ capital plans to rebuild buffers over
                  an appropriate timeframe (as anticipated in RBC30.5(4)).

                  It should be noted that Basel standards constitute minimum
                  requirements and jurisdictions may decide to apply a more
                  conservative treatment.


30.5   Set out below are a number of other key aspects of the requirements:




     (1) Elements subject to the restriction on distributions: Items considered to be
         distributions include dividends and share buybacks, discretionary payments
         on other Tier 1 capital instruments and discretionary bonus payments to
         staff. Payments that do not result in a depletion of CET1, which may for
         example include certain scrip dividends, are not considered distributions. The
         distribution restrictions do not apply to dividends which satisfy all three of
         the following conditions:

         (a) the dividends cannot legally be cancelled by the bank;

         (b) the dividends have already been removed from CET1; and

         (c)   the dividends were declared in line with the applicable capital
               conservation standards (as set out in RBC30.4) at the time of declaration.

     (2) Definition of earnings: Earnings are defined as distributable profits calculated
         prior to the deduction of elements subject to the restriction on distributions.
         Earnings are calculated after the tax which would have been reported had
         none of the distributable items been paid. As such, any tax impact of making
         such distributions are reversed out. Where a bank does not have positive
         earnings and has a CET1 ratio less than 7% (or higher if the capital
         conservation buffer has been expanded by other buffers), it would be
         restricted from making positive net distributions.

     (3) Solo or consolidated application: The framework should be applied at the
         consolidated level, ie restrictions would be imposed on distributions out of
         the consolidated group. National supervisors would have the option of
         applying the regime at the solo level to conserve resources in specific parts
         of the group.

     (4) Additional supervisory discretion: Although the buffer must be capable of
         being drawn down, banks should not choose in normal times to operate in
         the buffer range simply to compete with other banks and win market share.
         To ensure that this does not happen, supervisors have the additional
         discretion to impose time limits on banks operating within the buffer range
         on a case-by-case basis. In any case, supervisors should ensure that the
         capital plans of banks seek to rebuild buffers over an appropriate timeframe.




Countercyclical buffer
30.6   Losses incurred in the banking sector can be extremely large when a downturn is
       preceded by a period of excess credit growth. These losses can destabilise the
       banking sector and spark a vicious circle, whereby problems in the financial
       system can contribute to a downturn in the real economy that then feeds back on
       to the banking sector. These interactions highlight the particular importance of
       the banking sector building up additional capital defences in periods where the
       risks of system-wide stress are growing markedly.

30.7   The countercyclical buffer aims to ensure that banking sector capital
       requirements take account of the macro-financial environment in which banks
       operate. It will be deployed by national jurisdictions when excess aggregate
       credit growth is judged to be associated with a build-up of system-wide risk to
       ensure the banking system has a buffer of capital to protect it against future
       potential losses. This focus on excess aggregate credit growth means that
       jurisdictions are likely to only need to deploy the buffer on an infrequent basis.
       The buffer for internationally-active banks will be a weighted average of the
       buffers deployed across all the jurisdictions to which it has credit exposures. This
       means that they will likely find themselves subject to a small buffer on a more
       frequent basis, since credit cycles are not always highly correlated across
       jurisdictions.

30.8   The countercyclical buffer regime consists of the following elements:

       (1) National authorities will monitor credit growth and other indicators that may
           signal a build up of system-wide risk and make assessments of whether
           credit growth is excessive and is leading to the build up of system-wide risk.
           Based on this assessment they will put in place a countercyclical buffer
           requirement when circumstances warrant. This requirement will be released
           when system-wide risk crystallises or dissipates.

       (2) Internationally active banks will look at the geographic location of their
           private sector credit exposures and calculate their bank specific
           countercyclical capital buffer requirement as a weighted average of the
           requirements that are being applied in jurisdictions to which they have credit
           exposures.

       (3) The countercyclical buffer requirement to which a bank is subject will extend
           the size of the capital conservation buffer. Banks will be subject to
           restrictions on distributions if they do not meet the requirement.




National countercyclical buffer requirements
30.9   Each Basel Committee member jurisdiction will identify an authority with the
       responsibility to make decisions on the size of the countercyclical capital buffer. If
       the relevant national authority judges a period of excess credit growth to be
       leading to the build up of system-wide risk, they will consider, together with any
       other macroprudential tools at their disposal, putting in place a countercyclical
       buffer requirement. This will vary between zero and 2.5% of risk weighted assets,
       depending on their judgement as to the extent of the build up of system-wide
       risk.

 National authorities can implement a range of additional
                   macroprudential tools, including a buffer in excess of 2.5% for banks in
                   their jurisdiction, if this is deemed appropriate in their national context.
                   However, the international reciprocity provisions set out in this regime
                   treat the maximum countercyclical buffer as 2.5%.


30.10 The document entitled “ Guidance for national authorities operating the
      countercyclical capital buffer ”, sets out the principles that national authorities
      have agreed to follow in making buffer decisions. This document provides
      information that should help banks to understand and anticipate the buffer
      decisions made by national authorities in the jurisdictions to which they have
      credit exposures.

30.11 To give banks time to adjust to a buffer level, a jurisdiction will pre-announce its
      decision to raise the level of the countercyclical buffer by up to 12 months.
      Decisions by a jurisdiction to decrease the level of the countercyclical buffer will
      take effect immediately. The pre-announced buffer decisions and the actual
      buffers in place for all Committee member jurisdictions will be published on the
      Bank for International Settlements’ (BIS) website .



 Banks outside of this jurisdiction with credit exposures to
                 counterparties in this jurisdiction will also be subject to the increased
                 buffer level after the pre-announcement period in respect of these
                 exposures. However, in cases where the pre-announcement period of a
                 jurisdiction is shorter than 12 months, the home authority of such
                 banks should seek to match the preannouncement period where
                 practical, or as soon as possible (subject to a maximum
                 preannouncement period of 12 months), before the new buffer level
                 comes into effect.


     FAQ
     FAQ1        What are authorities required to disclose when they set the
                 countercyclical capital buffer rate or change the previously announced
                 rate? How should this be disclosed to other authorities, banks, and the
                 general public?

                 Authorities need to communicate all buffer decisions. All decisions
                 should also be reported promptly to the BIS. This will enable a list of
                 prevailing buffers, pre-announced buffers, and policy announcements
                 to be published on a dedicated page at the Basel Committee's website (
                 www.bis.org/bcbs/ccyb/index.htm ).

                 Authorities are expected to provide regular updates on their
                 assessment of the macro-financial situation and the prospects for
                 potential buffer actions to prepare banks and their stakeholders for
                 buffer decisions. Explaining how buffer decisions were made, including
                 the information used and how it is synthesised, will help build
                 understanding and the credibility of buffer decisions. Authorities are
                 free to choose the communication vehicles they see as most
                 appropriate for their jurisdiction. Authorities are not formally required
                 to publish a given set of information regarding their countercyclical
                 capital buffer regime and policy decisions. However, as noted in
                 Guidance for national authorities operating the countercyclical capital
                 buffer, since the credit-to-GDP guide should be considered as a useful
                 starting reference point, there is a need to disclose the guide on a
                 regular basis.

     FAQ2        How often are authorities expected to communicate buffer decisions?
                 Do they need to communicate a decision to leave a previously
                 announced countercyclical capital buffer rate unchanged?

                 Authorities should communicate buffer decisions at least annually. This
                 includes the case where there is no change in the prevailing buffer rate.


               More frequent communications should be made, however, to explain
               buffer actions when they are taken.

     FAQ3      How much time do banks have to build up the capital buffer add-on?
               Are there differences between decisions by home and host supervisors?

               The time period between the policy announcement date and the
               effective date for any increase in the countercyclical buffer is to give
               banks time to meet the additional capital requirements before they
               take effect. This time period should be up to 12 months, ie if deemed
               necessary by the host supervisor, the effective date may be accelerated
               to less than 12 months following the policy announcement date.

               Under jurisdictional reciprocity, home authorities should seek to ensure
               their banks meet any accelerated timeline where practical, and in any
               case, subject to a maximum of 12 months following the host
               jurisdiction’s policy announcement date. Finally, banks have discretion
               to meet the buffer sooner.

     FAQ4      When there has been a decrease in the buffer rate, how quickly can
               banks use the portion of the buffer that has been released?

               Under Basel III, banks may, in accordance with applicable processes,
               use the released portion of the countercyclical capital buffer that has
               been built up as soon as the relevant authority announces a reduction
               in the capital buffer add-on rate (including the case where the buffer is
               released in response to a sharp downturn in the credit cycle). This is
               intended to reduce the risk that the supply of credit will be constrained
               by regulatory requirements, with potential consequences for the real
               economy. This timeline also applies to reciprocity; that is, banks in
               other jurisdictions may also use the buffer immediately once the host
               authority reduces the buffer rate for credit exposures to its jurisdiction.
               Notwithstanding this, home and subsidiary regulators could prohibit
               capital distributions if they considered it imprudent under the
               circumstances.




Bank specific countercyclical buffer
30.12 Banks will be subject to a countercyclical buffer that varies between zero and
      2.5% to total risk weighted assets. The buffer that will apply to each bank will
      reflect the geographic composition of its portfolio of credit exposures. Banks
      must meet this buffer with CET1 or be subject to the restrictions on distributions
      set out in RBC30.17.

As with the capital conservation buffer, the framework will be applied
                   at the consolidated level. In addition, national supervisors may apply
                   the regime at the solo level to conserve resources in specific parts of
                   the group.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Does the countercyclical capital buffer apply to total RWA (credit,
                   market, and operational risk), or only to credit risk exposures?

                   The bank-specific buffer add-on rate (ie the weighted average of
                   countercyclical capital buffer rates in jurisdictions to which the bank
                   has private sector credit exposures) applies to bank-wide total RWA
                   (including credit, market, and operational risk) as used in for the
                   calculation of all risk-based capital ratios, consistent with it being an
                   extension of the capital conservation buffer.

       FAQ2        At what level of consolidation should the countercyclical capital buffer
                   be calculated?

                   Consistent with SCO10, the minimum requirements are applied at the
                   consolidated level. In addition, national authorities may apply the
                   regime at the solo level to conserve resources in specific parts of the
                   group. Host authorities would have the right to demand that the
                   countercyclical capital buffer be held at the individual legal entity level
                   or consolidated level within their jurisdiction, in line with their
                   implementation of the Basel capital requirements.




30.13 Internationally active banks will look at the geographic location of their private
      sector credit exposures (including non-bank financial sector exposures) and
      calculate their countercyclical capital buffer requirement as a weighted average of
      the buffers that are being applied in jurisdictions to which they have an exposure.
      Credit exposures in this case include all private sector credit exposures that

       attract a credit risk capital charge or the risk weighted equivalent trading book
       capital charges for specific risk, the incremental risk charge and securitisation.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        What are “private sector credit exposures”?

                   “Private sector credit exposures” refers to exposures to private sector
                   counterparties which attract a credit risk capital charge in the banking
                   book, and the risk-weighted equivalent trading book capital charges
                   for specific risk, the incremental risk charge, and securitisation.
                   Interbank exposures and exposures to the public sector are excluded,
                   but non-bank financial sector exposures are included.

       FAQ2        What does “geographic location” mean? How should the geographic
                   location of exposures on the banking book and the trading book be
                   identified?

                   The geographic location of a bank’s private sector credit exposures is
                   determined by the location of the counterparties that make up the
                   capital charge, irrespective of the bank’s own physical location or its
                   country of incorporation. The location is identified according to the
                   concept of ultimate risk. The geographic location identifies the
                   jurisdiction whose announced countercyclical capital buffer add-on
                   rate is to be applied by the bank to the corresponding credit exposure,
                   appropriately weighted.

       FAQ3        For which jurisdictions is reciprocity mandatory?

                   Reciprocity is mandatory for all Basel Committee member jurisdictions.
                   A full list of jurisdictions can be found at www.bis.org/bcbs
                   /membership.htm . The Basel Committee will continue to review the
                   potential for mandatory reciprocity of other non-member jurisdictions’
                   frameworks and, in the interim, strongly encourages voluntary
                   reciprocity.

       FAQ4        What is the maximum level of the buffer rate for which reciprocity is
                   mandatory?




               Reciprocity is mandatory for Basel Committee member jurisdictions up
               to 2.5% under the Basel framework, irrespective of whether host
               authorities require a higher add-on.


     FAQ5      When should the host authorities’ rates be reciprocated, and can there
               be deviations (higher or lower)?

               Home authorities must reciprocate buffer add-on rates imposed by any
               other member jurisdiction, in accordance with the scope of mandatory
               reciprocity and applicable processes. In particular, home authorities
               should not implement a lower buffer add-on in respect of their bank’s
               credit exposures to the host jurisdiction, up to a maximum of the buffer
               rate of 2.5%. For levels in excess of the relevant maximum buffer add-
               on rate, home authorities may, but are not required to, reciprocate host
               authorities’ buffer requirements. In general, home authorities will
               always be able to require that the banks they supervise maintain
               higher buffers if they judge the host authorities’ buffer to be insufficient.

     FAQ6      How do banks learn about different countercyclical capital buffer
               requirements in different countries?

               When member jurisdictions make changes to the countercyclical
               capital buffer add-on rate, authorities are expected to promptly notify
               the BIS, so that authorities can require their banks to comply with the
               new rate. A list of prevailing and pre-announced buffer add-on rates is
               to be published on the Basel Committee's website ( www.bis.org/bcbs
               /ccyb/index.htm ).

     FAQ7      What are the reciprocity requirements for sectoral countercyclical
               capital buffers or for countercyclical capital buffers introduced by non-
               Basel Committee members?

               National authorities can implement a range of additional
               macroprudential tools, including a sectoral countercyclical capital
               buffer, if this is deemed appropriate in their national context. The Basel
               III mandatory reciprocity provisions only apply to the countercyclical
               capital buffer, as defined in the Basel III framework, and not to sectoral
               requirements or other macroprudential tools, or to countercyclical
               capital buffer requirements introduced by jurisdictions outside the
               scope of mandatory reciprocity. However, the Basel III standards do not
               preclude an authority from voluntarily reciprocating beyond the
               mandatory reciprocity provisions for the countercyclical capital buffer
               or from reciprocating other policy tools.




       FAQ8        How is the final bank-specific buffer add-on calculated?

                   The final bank-specific buffer add-on amount is calculated as the
                   weighted average of the countercyclical capital buffer add-on rates
                   applicable in the jurisdiction(s) in which a bank has private sector
                   credit exposures (including the bank’s home jurisdiction) multiplied by
                   total risk-weighted assets. The weight for the buffer add-on rate
                   applicable in a given jurisdiction is the credit risk charge that relates to
                   private sector credit exposures allocated to that jurisdiction, divided by
                   the bank’s total credit risk charge that relates to private sector credit
                   exposures across all jurisdictions. Where the private sector credit
                   exposures (as defined in RBC30.13(FAQ1)) to a jurisdiction, including
                   the home jurisdiction, are zero, the weight to be allocated to the
                   particular jurisdiction would be zero.


30.14 The weighting applied to the buffer in place in each jurisdiction will be the bank’s
      total credit risk charge that relates to private sector credit exposures in that
      jurisdiction, divided by the bank’s total credit risk charge that relates to private
      sector credit exposures across all jurisdictions.


When considering the jurisdiction to which a private sector credit
                   exposure relates, banks should use, where possible, an ultimate risk
                   basis; ie it should use the country where the guarantor of the exposure
                   resides, not where the exposure has been booked.




     FAQ
     FAQ1      What is the difference between (the jurisdiction of) “ultimate risk” and
               (the jurisdiction of) “immediate counterparty” exposures?

               The concepts of “ultimate risk” and “immediate risk” are those used by
               the BIS’ International Banking Statistics . The jurisdiction of “immediate
               counterparty” refers to the jurisdiction of residence of immediate
               counterparties, while the jurisdiction of “ultimate risk” is where the
               final risk lies. For the purpose of the countercyclical capital buffer,
               banks should use, where possible, exposures on an “ultimate risk” basis.

               Table A.1 illustrates the potential differences in determining
               jurisdictions of ultimate risk versus immediate counterparty for various
               types of credit exposure. For example, a bank could face the situation
               where the exposures to a borrower is in one jurisdiction (country A),
               and the risk mitigant (eg guarantee) is in another jurisdiction (country
               B). In this case, the “immediate counterparty” is in country A, but the
               “ultimate risk” is in country B.

                Identifying geographic location
                “Ultimate risk” versus “immediate counterparty”                    Table A.1

                                                                              Immediate counterparty
                                                              Ultimate risk
                                                                             
                Borrower located in jurisdiction A:
                   No guarantee                                       A             A
                   Guarantee located in jurisdiction A                A             A
                   Guaranteed with counterparty                       A             A
                   located in jurisdiction A


                Borrower located in country A:
                   Guarantee located in jurisdiction B                B             A
                   Guaranteed with counterparty located in jurisdiction B                       B             A
                   
                   Is a branch of parent located in country B                   B             A
                   


                Repo transaction with counterparty in  jurisdiction A (independent of geographical location of risk of collateral)               A             A
               
                


                Securitisation exposures issued in jurisdiction A:
                   Debtor of the underlying exposure is   located in jurisdiction A
             A             A
                  
                                                                      B          A



                        Debtor of the underlying exposure is located in jurisdiction B
                        


                    Project finance; borrower in jurisdiction  A with project located in jurisdiction B          B                  A
                   


                    Collective investment undertakings located in jurisdiction A     
         Depends on  whether the bank  has a debt or equity claim on the investment vehicle             A
                                 
                                                               
                                                                


                    Trading book exposures to jurisdiction A:
                        Standardised Approach                          A                  A
                        Advanced Approach                             A                   A
                    
                      Based on a “see-through” approach, whereby the jurisdiction of ultimate risk
                    is defined as the residence of the debtor of the underlying credit, security or
                    derivatives contract. If this cannot be implemented, the “immediate
                    counterparty” exposure should be used.

                    
                      The bank has a debt claim on the investment vehicle, the ultimate risk
                    exposure should be allocated to the jurisdiction where the vehicle (or if
                    applicable, its parent/guarantor) resides. If the bank has an equity claim, the
                    ultimate risk exposure should be allocated proportionately to the jurisdictions
                    where the ultimate risk exposures of the vehicle reside.



30.15 For the value-at-risk (VaR) charge for specific risk, the incremental risk charge and
      the comprehensive risk measurement charge, banks should work with their
      supervisors to develop an approach that would translate these charges into
      individual instrument risk weights that would then be allocated to the geographic
      location of the specific counterparties that make up the charge. However, it may
      not always be possible to break down the charges in this way due to the charges
      being calculated on a portfolio by portfolio basis. In such cases, the charge for
      the relevant portfolio should be allocated to the geographic regions of the
      constituents of the portfolio by calculating the proportion of the portfolio’s total
      exposure at default (EAD) that is due to the EAD resulting from counterparties in
      each geographic region.




      FAQ
      FAQ1        What does “geographic location” mean? How should the geographic
                  location of exposures on the banking book and the trading book be
                  identified?

                  The geographic location of a bank’s private sector credit exposures is
                  determined by the location of the counterparties that make up the
                  capital charge, irrespective of the bank’s own physical location or its
                  country of incorporation. The location is identified according to the
                  concept of ultimate risk. The geographic location identifies the
                  jurisdiction whose announced countercyclical capital buffer add-on
                  rate is to be applied by the bank to the corresponding credit exposure,
                  appropriately weighted.

      FAQ2        What are the relevant exposures on the trading book for the
                  computation of geographical weights in the buffer add-on?

                  As noted in RBC30.13 and RBC30.15, private sector credit exposures
                  subject to the market risk capital framework are the risk weighted
                  equivalent trading book capital charges for specific risk, the
                  incremental risk charge, and securitisation. For the VaR for specific risk,
                  the incremental risk charge, and the comprehensive risk measures,
                  banks should work with their supervisors to develop an approach that
                  would translate these charges into individual instrument risk weights
                  that would then be allocated to the geographic location of specific
                  counterparties. However, it may not always be possible to break down
                  the charges in this way due to the charges being calculated on a
                  portfolio by portfolio basis. In such cases, one method is that the
                  charge for the relevant portfolio should be allocated to the geographic
                  regions of the constituents of the portfolio by calculating the
                  proportion of the portfolio’s total EAD that is due to the EAD resulting
                  from counterparties in each geographic region.

                  The Basel Committee will monitor implementation practices and
                  provide more prescriptive guidance should circumstances warrant it.



Extension of the capital conservation buffer
30.16 The countercyclical buffer requirement to which a bank is subject is implemented
      through an extension of the capital conservation buffer described in RBC30.1 to
      RBC30.5.




30.17

        The table below shows the minimum capital conservation ratios a bank must
        meet at various levels of the CET1 capital ratio. When the countercyclical capital
        buffer is zero in all of the regions to which a bank has private sector credit
        exposures, the capital levels and restrictions set out in the table are the same as
        those set out in RBC30.1 to RBC30.5.

            Individual bank minimum capital conservation standards


            Common Equity Tier 1 (including other fully loss absorbing capital)   
     Minimum Capital Conservation Ratios
                                 (expressed as a percentage of earnings)

                   Within first quartile of buffer                         100%

                  Within second quartile of buffer                          80%

                   Within Third quartile of buffer                          60%

                  Within Fourth quartile of buffer                          40%

                        Above top of buffer                                 0%




Consistent with the conservation buffer, the CET1 ratio in this context
                       includes amounts used to meet the 4.5% minimum CET1 requirement,
                       but excludes any additional CET1 needed to meet the 6% Tier 1 and
                       8% Total Capital requirements and the minimum TLAC requirement.


30.18 For illustrative purposes, the following table sets out the conservation ratios a
      bank must meet at various levels of CET1 capital if the bank is subject to a 2.5%
      countercyclical buffer requirement.




        Individual bank minimum capital conservation standards, when a bank is subject to a 2.5%
        countercyclical requirement


         Common Equity Tier 1 Ratio (including other fully loss absorbing capital)     
          Minimum Capital Conservation Ratios
               (expressed as a percentage of earnings)

                      4.5% - 5.75%                                      100%

                     >5.75% - 7.0%                                       80%

                     >7.0% - 8.25%                                       60%

                     >8.25% - 9.5%                                       40%

                         > 9.5%                                          0%




Frequency of calculation of the countercyclical buffer requirements
30.19 Banks must ensure that their countercyclical buffer requirements are calculated
      and publically disclosed with at least the same frequency as their minimum
      capital requirements. The buffer should be based on the latest relevant
      jurisdictional countercyclical buffers that are available at the date that they
      calculate their minimum capital requirement.


Capital conservation best practice
30.20 Outside of periods of stress, banks should hold buffers of capital above the
      regulatory minimum. Implementation of the buffers in this chapter will help
      increase sector resilience going into a downturn, and provide the mechanism for
      rebuilding capital during the early stages of economic recovery. Retaining a
      greater proportion of earnings during a downturn will help ensure that capital
      remains available to support the ongoing business operations of banks through
      the period of stress.

30.21 When buffers have been drawn down, one way banks should look to rebuild
      them is through reducing discretionary distributions of earnings. This could
      include reducing dividend payments, share-backs and staff bonus payments.
      Banks may also choose to raise new capital from the private sector as an
      alternative to conserving internally generated capital. The balance between these
      options should be discussed with supervisors as part of the capital planning
      process.




30.22 Greater efforts should be made to rebuild buffers the more they have been
      depleted. Therefore, in the absence of raising capital in the private sector, the
       share of earnings retained by banks for the purpose of rebuilding their capital
       buffers should increase the nearer their actual capital levels are to the minimum
       capital requirement.

30.23 It is not acceptable for banks which have depleted their capital buffers to use
      future predictions of recovery as justification for maintaining generous
      distributions to shareholders, other capital providers and employees. These
      stakeholders, rather than depositors, must bear the risk that recovery will not be
      forthcoming. It is also not acceptable for banks which have depleted their capital
      buffers to try and use the distribution of capital as a way to signal their financial
      strength. Not only is this irresponsible from the perspective of an individual bank,
      putting shareholders’ interests above depositors, it may also encourage other
      banks to follow suit. As a consequence, banks in aggregate can end up increasing
      distributions at the exact point in time when they should be conserving earnings.




                                 RBC40
                                 Systemically important bank
                                 buffers
                                 This chapter describes the higher loss
                                 absorbency requirements applying to global and
                                 domestic systemically important banks.


                                 
Higher loss absorbency requirement for G-SIBs
40.1   The aim of the higher loss absorbency requirement, as set out in the report
       endorsed by the Group of Twenty at its Seoul Summit in November 2010, is to
       ensure that global systemically important financial institutions have a higher
       share of their balance sheets funded by instruments which increase the resilience
       of the institution as a going-concern. Taking into account this going-concern
       objective, global systemically important banks (G-SIBs) must meet their higher
       loss absorbency requirement with Common Equity Tier 1 capital only.

40.2   National supervisors have implemented the higher loss absorbency requirement
       through an extension of the capital conservation buffer, maintaining the division
       of the buffer into four bands of equal size (as described in RBC30.17).

40.3   If a G-SIB breaches the higher loss absorbency requirement, it is required to
       agree a capital remediation plan to return to compliance over a time frame to be
       established by the supervisor. Until it has completed that plan and returned to
       compliance, it is subject to the limitations on dividend payout defined by the
       conservation buffer bands, and to other arrangements as required by the
       supervisor.

40.4   As described in SCO40.19 to SCO40.22, G-SIBs are allocated into buckets based
       on their scores of systemic importance, with varying levels of higher loss
       absorbency requirements applied to the different buckets. The cutoff score for G-
       SIB designation is 130 bps and the buckets corresponding to the different higher
       loss-absorbency requirements each have a range of 100 bps. The magnitude of
       the higher loss-absorbency requirement for the highest populated bucket is 2.5%
       of risk-weighted assets, with an initially empty top bucket of 3.5% of risk-
       weighted assets. The magnitude of the higher loss absorbency requirement for
       the lowest bucket is 1.0% of risk-weighted assets. Based on the bucketing
       approach set out in SCO40.19 to SCO40.22, the magnitude of the higher loss
       absorbency requirement for each bucket is as follows.




        Bucketing approach                                                           Table 1


                                     Higher loss absorbency requirement (common equity as a percentage of risk-weighted assets)
           Bucket      Score range
                                                

             5           530-629                              3.5%

             4           430-529                              2.5%

             3           330-429                              2.0%

             2           230-329                              1.5%

             1           130-229                              1.0%



40.5   As noted in SCO40.22, although the bucket thresholds is set initially such that
       bucket 5 is empty, if this bucket should become populated in the future, a new
       bucket will be added to maintain incentives for banks to avoid becoming more
       systemically important. Each new bucket will be equal in size (in terms of scores)
       to each of the initially populated buckets and the minimum higher loss
       absorbency requirement for the new buckets will increase in increments of 1% of
       risk-weighted assets (eg if bucket 5 should become populated, bucket 6 would be
       created with a minimum higher loss absorbency requirement of 4.5%).

40.6   If a G-SIB progresses to a bucket requiring a higher loss absorbency requirement,
       it will be required to meet the additional requirement within a time frame of 12
       months. After this grace period, if the bank does not meet the higher loss
       absorbency requirement, the capital retention mechanism for the expanded
       capital conservation buffer will be applied. If, on the other hand, the G-SIB score
       falls, resulting in a lower higher loss absorbency requirement, the bank should be
       immediately released from its previous higher loss absorbency requirement. In
       these circumstances, national authorities may exert discretion and require a bank
       to delay the release of higher loss absorbency requirements.




Higher loss absorbency for domestic systemically important banks
40.7   As described in SCO50, a domestic systemically important bank (D-SIB)
       framework is best understood as taking the complementary perspective to the G-
       SIB regime by focusing on the impact that the distress or failure of banks
       (including by international banks) will have on the domestic economy. The
       principles developed by the Committee for D-SIBs would allow for appropriate
       national discretion to accommodate structural characteristics of the domestic
       financial system, including the possibility for countries to go beyond the
       minimum D-SIB framework and impose additional requirements based on the
       specific features of the country and its domestic banking sector.

40.8   The principles set out below focus on the higher loss absorbency requirement for
       D-SIBs. The Committee would like to emphasise that other policy tools,
       particularly more intensive supervision, can also play an important role in dealing
       with D-SIBs.

       (1) National authorities should document the methodologies and considerations
           used to calibrate the level of higher loss absorbency that the framework
           would require for D-SIBs in their jurisdiction. The level of higher loss
           absorbency calibrated for D-SIBs should be informed by quantitative
           methodologies (where available) and country-specific factors without
           prejudice to the use of supervisory judgement.

       (2) The higher loss absorbency requirement imposed on a bank should be
           commensurate with the degree of systemic importance, as identified under
           SCO50.14 to SCO50.17.

       (3) National authorities should ensure that the application of the G-SIB and D-
           SIB frameworks is compatible within their jurisdictions. Home authorities
           should impose higher loss absorbency requirements that they calibrate at
           the parent and/or consolidated level, and host authorities should impose
           higher loss absorbency requirements that they calibrate at the sub-
           consolidated/subsidiary level. The home authority should test that the parent
           bank is adequately capitalised on a standalone basis, including cases in
           which a D-SIB higher loss absorbency requirement is applied at the
           subsidiary level. Home authorities should impose the higher of either the D-
           SIB or G-SIB higher loss absorbency requirements in the case where the
           banking group has been identified as a D-SIB in the home jurisdiction as well
           as a G-SIB.




       (4) In cases where the subsidiary of a bank is considered to be a D-SIB by a host
           authority, home and host authorities should make arrangements to



           coordinate and cooperate on the appropriate higher loss absorbency
           requirement, within the constraints imposed by relevant laws in the host
           jurisdiction.

       (5) The higher loss absorbency requirement should be met fully by Common
           Equity Tier 1. In addition, national authorities should put in place any
           additional requirements and other policy measures they consider to be
           appropriate to address the risks posed by a D-SIB.


Principle 1: documenting methodologies for calibration
40.9   The purpose of a higher loss absorbency requirement for D-SIBs is to reduce
       further the probability of failure compared to non-systemic institutions, reflecting
       the greater impact a D-SIB failure is expected to have on the domestic financial
       system and economy.

40.10 It is important for the application of a D-SIB higher loss absorbency, at both the
      parent and subsidiary level, to be based on a transparent and well articulated
      assessment framework to ensure the implications of the requirements are well
      understood by both the home and the host authorities.

40.11 The level of higher loss absorbency for D-SIBs should be subject to policy
      judgement by national authorities. That said, there needs to be some form of
      analytical framework that would inform policy judgements. This was the case for
      the policy judgement made by the Committee on the level of the additional loss
      absorbency requirement for G-SIBs.

40.12 The policy judgement on the level of higher loss absorbency requirements should
      also be guided by country-specific factors which could include the degree of
      concentration in the banking sector or the size of the banking sector relative to
      gross domestic product (GDP). Specifically, countries that have a larger banking
      sector relative to GDP are more likely to suffer larger direct economic impacts of
      the failure of a D-SIB than those with smaller banking sectors. While size-to-GDP
      is easy to calculate, the concentration of the banking sector could also be
      considered (as a failure in a medium-sized highly concentrated banking sector
      would likely create more of an impact on the domestic economy than if it were to
      occur in a larger, more widely dispersed banking sector).





               Another factor that could be relevant is the funding position of the
                   banking sector, whereby more foreign wholesale funding could
                   increase the transition costs (deleveraging) facing both the financial
                   sector and the domestic economy in the event of a crisis.


40.13 The use of these factors in calibrating the higher loss absorbency requirement
      would provide justification for different intensities of policy responses across
      countries for banks that are otherwise similar across the four key bank-specific
      factors outlined in SCO50.14 to SCO50.17.


Principle 2: calibration commensurate with systemic importance
40.14 Although the D-SIB framework does not produce scores based on a prescribed
      methodology as in the case of the G-SIB framework, the higher loss absorbency
      requirements for D-SIBs should also be decided based on the degree of domestic
      systemic importance. This is to provide the appropriate incentives to banks which
      are subject to the higher loss absorbency requirements to reduce (or at least not
      increase) their systemic importance over time. In the case where there are
      multiple D-SIB buckets in a jurisdiction, this could imply differentiated levels of
      higher loss absorbency between D-SIB buckets.


Principle 3: consistency between application of G-SIB and D-SIB
frameworks
40.15 National authorities, including host authorities, currently have the capacity to set
      and impose capital requirements they consider appropriate to banks within their
      jurisdictions. SCO40.5 states that host authorities of G-SIB subsidiaries may apply
      an additional loss absorbency requirement at the individual legal entity or
      consolidated level within their jurisdiction. An imposition of a D-SIB higher loss
      absorbency by a host authority is no different (except for additional transparency)
      from their current capacity to impose a Pillar 1 or 2 capital charge. Therefore, the
      ability of the host authorities to implement a D-SIB higher loss absorbency on
      local subsidiaries does not raise any new home-host issues.




40.16 National authorities should ensure that banks with the same degree of systemic
      importance in their jurisdiction, regardless of whether they are domestic banks,
      subsidiaries of foreign banking groups, or subsidiaries of G-SIBs, are subject to
      the same higher loss absorbency requirements, ceteris paribus. Banks in a
      jurisdiction should be subject to a consistent, coherent and non-discriminatory
      treatment regardless of the ownership. The objective of the host authorities’
      power to impose higher loss absorbency on subsidiaries is to bolster capital to

       mitigate the potential heightened impact of the subsidiaries’ failure on the
       domestic economy due to their systemic nature. This should be maintained in
       cases where a bank might not be (or might be less) systemic at home, but its
       subsidiary is (more) systemic in the host jurisdiction.

40.17 An action by the host authorities to impose a D-SIB higher loss absorbency
      requirement leads to increases in capital at the subsidiary level which can be
      viewed as a shift in capital from the parent bank to the subsidiary, unless it
      already holds an adequate capital buffer in the host jurisdiction or the additional
      capital raised by the subsidiary is from outside investors. This could, in the case of
      substantial or large subsidiaries, materially decrease the level of capital protecting
      the parent bank. Under such cases, it is important that the home authority
      continues to ensure there are sufficient financial resources at the parent level, for
      example through a solo capital requirement (see also SCO10.4).

40.18 Within a jurisdiction, applying the D-SIB framework to both G-SIBs and non-G-
      SIBs will help ensure a level playing field within the national context. For example,
      in a jurisdiction with two banks that are roughly identical in terms of their
      assessed systemic nature at the domestic level, but where one is a G-SIB and the
      other is not, national authorities would have the capacity to apply the same D-SIB
      higher loss absorbency requirement to both. In such cases, the home authorities
      could face a situation where the higher loss absorbency requirement on the
      consolidated group will be the higher of those prescribed by the G-SIB and D-SIB
      frameworks (ie the higher of either the D-SIB or G-SIB requirement).

40.19 Double-counting should be avoided. The higher loss absorbency requirements
      derived from the G-SIB and D-SIB frameworks should not be additive. This will
      ensure the overall consistency between the two frameworks and allows the D-SIB
      framework to take the complementary perspective to the G-SIB framework.




Principle 4: home and host cooperation
40.20 The Committee recognises that there could be some concern that host
      authorities tend not to have a group-wide perspective when applying higher loss
      absorbency requirements to subsidiaries of foreign banking groups in their
      jurisdiction. The home authorities, on the other hand, clearly need to know D-SIB
      higher loss absorbency requirements on significant subsidiaries since there could
      be implications for the allocation of financial resources within the banking group.

40.21 In these circumstances, it is important that arrangements to coordinate and
      cooperate on the appropriate higher loss absorbency requirement between home
      and host authorities are established and maintained, within the constraints
      imposed by relevant laws in the host jurisdiction, when formulating higher loss
      absorbency requirements. This is particularly important to make it possible for
      the home authority to test the capital position of a parent on a stand-alone basis
      as mentioned in RBC40.16 and to prevent a situation where the home authorities
      are surprised by the action of the host authorities. Home and host authorities
      should coordinate and cooperate with each other on any plan to impose a higher
      loss absorbency requirement on a subsidiary bank, and the amount of the
      requirement, before taking any action. The host authority should provide a
      rationale for their decision, and an indication of the steps the bank would need to
      take to avoid/reduce such a requirement. The home and host authorities should
      also discuss:

       (1) the resolution regimes (including recovery and resolution plans) in both
           jurisdictions,

       (2) available resolution strategies and any specific resolution plan in place for
           the firm, and

       (3) the extent to which such arrangements should influence higher loss
           absorbency requirements.




Principle 5: higher loss absorbency requirement met with Common
Equity Tier 1 and additional requirements and policy measures to
address the risks posed by a D-SIB
40.22 Higher loss absorbency requirements for D-SIBs should be fully met with
      Common Equity Tier 1 to ensure a maximum degree of consistency with G-SIBs in
      terms of effective loss-absorbing capacity. This has the benefit of facilitating
      direct and transparent comparability of the application of requirements across
      jurisdictions, an element that is considered desirable given the fact that most of
      these banks will have cross-border operations being in direct competition with
      each other. In addition, national authorities should put in place any additional
      requirements and other policy measures they consider to be appropriate to
      address the risks posed by a D-SIB.

40.23 National authorities should implement the higher loss absorbency requirement
      through an extension of the capital conservation buffer, maintaining the division
      of the buffer into four bands of equal size (as described in RBC30.17). This is in
      line with the treatment of the additional loss absorbency requirement for G-SIBs.
      The higher loss absorbency requirement for D-SIBs is essentially a requirement
      that sits on top of the capital buffers and minimum capital requirement, with a
      pre-determined set of consequences for banks that do not meet this requirement.




                                 CRE
                                 Calculation of RWA for credit
                                 risk
                                 This standard describes how to calculate capital
                                 requirements for credit risk.




                                 CRE20
                                 Standardised approach:
                                 individual exposures
                                 This chapter sets out the standardised approach
                                 for credit risk as it applies to individual claims.


                                 
Introduction
20.1   Banks can choose between two broad methodologies for calculating their risk-
       based capital requirements for credit risk. The first is the standardised approach,
       which is set out in chapters CRE20 to CRE22:

       (1) The standardised approach assigns standardised risk weights to exposures as
           described in this chapter, CRE20. Risk weighted assets are calculated as the
           product of the standardised risk weights and the exposure amount.
           Exposures should be risk-weighted net of specific provisions (including
           partial write-offs).

       (2) To determine the risk weights in the standardised approach for certain
           exposure classes, banks may use assessments by external credit assessment
           institutions that are recognised as eligible for capital purposes by national
           supervisors. The requirements covering the use of external ratings are set out
           in chapter CRE21.

       (3) The credit risk mitigation techniques that are permitted to be recognised
           under the standardised approach are set out in chapter CRE22.


  The notations in CRE20 to CRE22 follow the methodology used by one
                   institution, S&P. The use of S&P credit ratings is an example only;
                   those of some other external credit assessment institutions could
                   equally well be used. The ratings used throughout this document,
                   therefore, do not express any preferences or determinations on external
                   assessment institutions by the Committee.


20.2   The second risk-weighted capital treatment for measuring credit risk, the internal
       ratings-based (IRB) approach, allows banks to use their internal rating systems for
       credit risk, subject to the explicit approval of the bank’s supervisor. The IRB
       approach is set out in chapters CRE30 to CRE36.

20.3   The treatment of the following exposures is addressed in separate chapters of the
       credit risk standard:

       (1) Equity investments in funds are addressed in CRE60.

       (2) Securitisation exposures are addressed in CRE40 to CRE44.

       (3) Exposures to central counterparties are addressed in CRE54.
       (4) Exposures arising from failed trades and non-delivery-versus-payment
           transactions, are addressed in CRE70.


Claims on sovereigns
20.4   Claims on sovereigns and their central banks will be risk weighted as follows:

           Credit Assessment             AAA to     A+ to A-   BBB+ to     BB+ to B-    Below B-      Unrated
                    AA-                    BBB-

           Risk Weight           0%        20%        50%         100%         150%         100%



20.5   At national discretion, a lower risk weight may be applied to banks’ exposures to
       their sovereign (or central bank) of incorporation denominated in domestic
       currency and funded in that currency. Where this discretion is exercised, other
       national supervisory authorities may also permit their banks to apply the same
       risk weight to domestic currency exposures to this sovereign (or central bank)
       funded in that currency.

This is to say that the bank would also have corresponding liabilities
                         denominated in the domestic currency.

 This lower risk weight may be extended to the risk weighting of
                         collateral and guarantees set out in CRE22.


20.6   For the purpose of risk weighting claims on sovereigns, supervisors may
       recognise the country risk scores assigned by Export Credit Agencies (ECAs). To
       qualify, an ECA must publish its risk scores and subscribe to the Organisation for
       Economic Cooperation and Development’s (OECD) agreed methodology. Banks
       may choose to use the risk scores published by individual ECAs that are
       recognised by their supervisor, or the consensus risk scores of ECAs participating
       in the “Arrangement on Officially Supported Export Credits”. The OECD agreed
       methodology establishes eight risk score categories associated with minimum
       export insurance premiums. These ECA risk scores will correspond to risk weight
       categories as detailed below.




           ECA risk scores              0-1           2            3         4 to 6          7

           Risk weight                  0%          20%          50%          100%         150%




 The consensus country risk classifications of the Participants to the
                         Arrangement on Officially Supported Export Credits are available on
                         the OECD’s website .


20.7   Claims on the Bank for International Settlements, the International Monetary
       Fund, the European Central Bank, the European Union, the European Stability
       Mechanism and the European Financial Stability Facility may receive a 0% risk
       weight.


Claims on non-central government public sector entities (PSEs)
20.8   Claims on domestic PSEs will be risk-weighted at national discretion, according to
       either option 1 or option 2 for claims on banks (see CRE20.14). When option 2 is
       selected, it is to be applied without the use of the preferential treatment for short-
       term claims.

This is regardless of the option chosen at national discretion for claims
                         on banks of that country. It therefore does not imply that when one
                         option has been chosen for claims on banks, the same option should
                         also be applied to claims on PSEs.


20.9   Subject to national discretion, claims on certain domestic PSEs may also be
       treated as claims on the sovereigns in whose jurisdictions the PSEs are
       established. Where this discretion is exercised, other national supervisors may
       allow their banks to risk weight claims on such PSEs in the same manner.




 The following examples outline how PSEs might be categorised when
                 focusing on one specific feature, namely revenue raising powers.
                 However, there may be other ways of determining the different
                 treatments applicable to different types of PSEs, for instance by
                 focusing on the extent of guarantees provided by the central
                 government:

                 (a) Regional governments and local authorities could qualify for the
                     same treatment as claims on their sovereign or central
                     government if these governments and local authorities have
                     specific revenue raising powers and have specific institutional
                     arrangements the effect of which is to reduce their risks of default.

                 (b) Administrative bodies responsible to central governments,
                     regional governments or to local authorities and other non-
                     commercial undertakings owned by the governments or local
                     authorities may not warrant the same treatment as claims on
                     their sovereign if the entities do not have revenue raising powers
                     or other arrangements as described above. If strict lending rules
                     apply to these entities and a declaration of bankruptcy is not
                     possible because of their special public status, it may be
                     appropriate to treat these claims in the same manner as claims on
                     banks.

                 (c)   Commercial undertakings owned by central governments,
                       regional governments or by local authorities may be treated as
                       normal commercial enterprises. However, if these entities function
                       as a corporate in competitive markets even though the state, a
                       regional authority or a local authority is the major shareholder of
                       these entities, supervisors should decide to consider them as
                       corporates and therefore attach to them the applicable risk
                       weights.




Claims on multilateral development banks (MDBs)
20.10 The risk weights applied to claims on MDBs will generally be based on external
      credit assessments as set out under option 2 for claims on banks but without the
      possibility of using the preferential treatment for short-term claims. A 0% risk
      weight will be applied to claims on highly rated MDBs that fulfil to the Committee’
      s satisfaction the criteria provided below. The Committee will continue to
      evaluate eligibility on a case-by-case basis. The eligibility criteria for MDBs risk
      weighted at 0% are:

       (1) very high quality long-term issuer ratings, ie a majority of an MDB’s external
           assessments must be AAA;

       (2) shareholder structure is comprised of a significant proportion of sovereigns
           with long-term issuer credit assessments of AA- or better, or the majority of
           the MDB’s fund-raising are in the form of paid-in equity/capital and there is
           little or no leverage;

       (3) strong shareholder support demonstrated by the amount of paid-in capital
           contributed by the shareholders; the amount of further capital the MDBs
           have the right to call, if required, to repay their liabilities; and continued
           capital contributions and new pledges from sovereign shareholders;

       (4) adequate level of capital and liquidity (a case-by-case approach is necessary
           in order to assess whether each MDB’s capital and liquidity are adequate);
           and,

       (5) strict statutory lending requirements and conservative financial policies,
           which would include among other conditions a structured approval process,
           internal creditworthiness and risk concentration limits (per country, sector,
           and individual exposure and credit category), large exposures approval by
           the board or a committee of the board, fixed repayment schedules, effective
           monitoring of use of proceeds, status review process, and rigorous
           assessment of risk and provisioning to loan loss reserve.



  MDBs currently eligible for a 0% risk weight are: the World Bank Group
                   comprised of the International Bank for Reconstruction and
                   Development, the International Finance Corporation, the Multilateral
                   Investment Guarantee Agency and the International Development
                   Association, the Asian Development Bank, the African Development
                   Bank, the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development, the
                   Inter-American Development Bank, the European Investment Bank, the
                   European Investment Fund, the Nordic Investment Bank, the Caribbean
                   Development Bank, the Islamic Development Bank, the Council of
                   Europe Development Bank, the International Finance Facility for
                   Immunization and the Asian Infrastructure Investment Bank.



Claims on banks
20.11 There are two options for claims on banks. National supervisors will apply one
      option to all banks in their jurisdiction. No claim on an unrated bank, except for
      self-liquidating letters of credit, may receive a risk weight lower than that applied
      to claims on its sovereign of incorporation.

20.12 Under the first option, all banks incorporated in a given country will be assigned
      a risk weight one category less favourable than that assigned to claims on the
      sovereign of that country. However, for claims on banks in countries with
      sovereigns rated BB+ to B- and on banks in unrated countries the risk weight will
      be capped at 100%.

20.13 The second option bases the risk weighting on the external credit assessment of
      the bank itself with claims on unrated banks being risk-weighted at 50%. Under
      this option, a preferential risk weight that is one category more favourable may
      be applied to claims with an original maturity of three months or less, subject to
      a floor of 20%. This treatment will be available to both rated and unrated banks,
      but not to banks risk weighted at 150%.

Supervisors should ensure that claims with (contractual) original
                   maturity under 3 months which are expected to be rolled over (ie
                   where the effective maturity is longer than 3 months) do not qualify for
                   this preferential treatment for capital adequacy purposes.


20.14 The two options are summarised in the tables below.




           Option 1


           Credit assessment of Sovereign   AAA to    A+ to A-   BBB+ to     BB+ to    Below B-    Unrated
                     AA-                   BBB-        B-

           Risk weight under of Sovereign     20%        50%       100%       100%       150%       100%
           


           Option 2


           Credit assessment  of Banks      AAA to    A+ to A-   BBB+ to     BB+ to    Below B-    Unrated
                      AA-                   BBB-        B-

           Risk weight under Option 2      20%        50%       50%        100%       150%       50%
           

           Risk weight for short-term claims under Option 2        20%        20%       20%        50%        150%       20%
           




 Short-term claims in Option 2 are defined as having an original
                      maturity of three months or less. These tables do not reflect the
                      potential preferential risk weights for domestic currency claims that
                      banks may be allowed to apply based on CRE20.15.


20.15 When the national supervisor has chosen to apply the preferential treatment for
      claims on the sovereign as described in CRE20.5, it can also assign, under both
      options 1 and 2, a risk weight that is one category less favourable than that
      assigned to claims on the sovereign, subject to a floor of 20%, to claims on banks
      of an original maturity of 3 months or less denominated and funded in the
      domestic currency.


Claims on securities firms
20.16 Claims on securities firms may be treated as claims on banks provided these firms
      are subject to supervisory and regulatory arrangements comparable to those
      under this Framework (including, in particular, risk-based capital requirements).
      Otherwise such claims would follow the rules for claims on corporates.




 That is, capital requirements that are comparable to those applied to
                      banks in this Framework. Implicit in the meaning of the word
                      “comparable” is that the securities firm (but not necessarily its parent)
                      is subject to consolidated regulation and supervision with respect to
                      any downstream affiliates.



Claims on corporates
20.17 The table provided below illustrates the risk weighting of rated corporate claims,
      including claims on insurance companies. The standard risk weight for unrated
      claims on corporates will be 100%. No claim on an unrated corporate may be
      given a risk weight preferential to that assigned to its sovereign of incorporation.

        Credit assessment         AAA to      A+ to A-     BBB+ to BB-    Below BB-     Unrated
                                   AA-

        Risk weight                20%          50%           100%           150%        100%



20.18 Supervisory authorities should increase the standard risk weight for unrated
      claims where they judge that a higher risk weight is warranted by the overall
      default experience in their jurisdiction. As part of the supervisory review process,
      supervisors may also consider whether the credit quality of corporate claims held
      by individual banks should warrant a standard risk weight higher than 100%.

20.19 At national discretion, supervisory authorities may permit banks to risk weight all
      corporate claims at 100% without regard to external ratings. Where this
      discretion is exercised by the supervisor, it must ensure that banks apply a single
      consistent approach, ie either to use ratings wherever available or not at all. To
      prevent “cherry-picking” of external ratings, banks should obtain supervisory
      approval before utilising this option to risk weight all corporate claims at 100%.


Claims included in the regulatory retail portfolios
20.20 Claims that qualify under the criteria listed in CRE20.21 may be considered as
      retail claims for regulatory capital purposes and included in a regulatory retail
      portfolio. Exposures included in such a portfolio may be risk-weighted at 75%,
      except as provided in CRE20.26 for past due loans.

20.21 To be included in the regulatory retail portfolio, claims must meet the following
      four criteria:




       (1) Orientation criterion: The exposure is to an individual person or persons or
           to a small business;

       (2) Product criterion: The exposure takes the form of any of the following:
           revolving credits and lines of credit (including credit cards and overdrafts),
           personal term loans and leases (eg instalment loans, auto loans and leases,
           student and educational loans, personal finance) and small business facilities
           and commitments. Securities (such as bonds and equities), whether listed or
           not, are specifically excluded from this category. Mortgage loans are
           excluded to the extent that they qualify for treatment as claims secured by
           residential property (see CRE20.23).

       (3) Granularity criterion: The supervisor must be satisfied that the regulatory
           retail portfolio is sufficiently diversified to a degree that reduces the risks in
           the portfolio, warranting the 75% risk weight. One way of achieving this may
           be to set a numerical limit that no aggregate exposure to one counterpart
           can exceed 0.2% of the overall regulatory retail portfolio.

       (4) Low value of individual exposures: The maximum aggregated retail exposure
           to one counterpart cannot exceed an absolute threshold of €1 million.


Aggregated exposure means gross amount (ie not taking any credit risk
                   mitigation into account) of all forms of debt exposures (eg loans or
                   commitments) that individually satisfy the three other criteria. In
                   addition, “to one counterpart” means one or several entities that may
                   be considered as a single beneficiary (eg in the case of a small business
                   that is affiliated to another small business, the limit would apply to the
                   bank’s aggregated exposure on both businesses).


20.22 National supervisory authorities should evaluate whether the risk weights in
      CRE20.20 are considered to be too low based on the default experience for these
      types of exposures in their jurisdictions. Supervisors, therefore, may require banks
      to increase these risk weights as appropriate.




Claims secured by residential property
20.23 Lending fully secured by mortgages on residential property that is or will be
      occupied by the borrower, or that is rented, will be risk weighted at 35%. In
      applying the 35% weight, the supervisory authorities should satisfy themselves,
      according to their national arrangements for the provision of housing finance,
      that this concessionary weight is applied restrictively for residential purposes and
      in accordance with strict prudential criteria, such as the existence of substantial
      margin of additional security over the amount of the loan based on strict
      valuation rules. Supervisors should increase the standard risk weight where they
      judge the criteria are not met.

20.24 National supervisory authorities should evaluate whether the risk weights in
      CRE20.23 are considered to be too low based on the default experience for these
      types of exposures in their jurisdictions. Supervisors, therefore, may require banks
      to increase these risk weights as appropriate.


Claims secured by commercial real estate
20.25 In view of the experience in numerous countries that commercial property
      lending has been a recurring cause of troubled assets in the banking industry
      over the past few decades, the Committee holds to the view that mortgages on
      commercial real estate do not, in principle, justify other than a 100% weighting of
      the loans secured.




  The Committee, however, recognises that, in exceptional circumstances
                   for well-developed and long-established markets, mortgages on office
                   and/or multi-purpose commercial premises and/or multi-tenanted
                   commercial premises may have the potential to receive a preferential
                   risk weight of 50% for the tranche of the loan that does not exceed the
                   lower of 50% of the market value or 60% of the mortgage lending
                   value of the property securing the loan. Any exposure beyond these
                   limits will receive a 100% risk weight. This exceptional treatment will
                   be subject to very strict conditions. In particular, two tests must be
                   fulfilled, namely that: (i) losses stemming from commercial real estate
                   lending up to the lower of 50% of the market value or 60% of loan-to-
                   value based on mortgage-lending-value must not exceed 0.3% of the
                   outstanding loans in any given year; and that (ii) overall losses
                   stemming from commercial real estate lending must not exceed 0.5%
                   of the outstanding loans in any given year. This is, if either of these
                   tests is not satisfied in a given year, the eligibility to use this treatment
                   will cease and the original eligibility criteria would need to be satisfied
                   again before it could be applied in the future. Countries applying such
                   a treatment must publicly disclose that these conditions are met. When
                   claims benefiting from such an exceptional treatment have fallen past
                   due, they will be risk-weighted at 100%.



Past due loans
20.26 The unsecured portion of any loan (other than a qualifying residential mortgage
      loan) that is past due for more than 90 days, net of specific provisions (including
      partial write-offs), will be risk-weighted as follows: 

       (1) 150% risk weight when specific provisions are less than 20% of the
           outstanding amount of the loan;

       (2) 100% risk weight when specific provisions are no less than 20% of the
           outstanding amount of the loan;

       (3) 100% risk weight when specific provisions are no less than 50% of the
           outstanding amount of the loan, but with supervisory discretion to reduce
           the risk weight to 50%.



Subject to national discretion, supervisors may permit banks to treat
                   non-past due loans extended to counterparties subject to a 150% risk
                   weight in the same way as past due loans described in CRE20.26 to
                   CRE20.28.


20.27 For the purpose of defining the secured portion of the past due loan, eligible
      collateral and guarantees will be the same as for credit risk mitigation purposes
      (see chapter CRE22). Past due retail loans are to be excluded from the overall
      regulatory retail portfolio when assessing the granularity criterion specified in
      CRE20.21, for risk-weighting purposes.

20.28 In addition to the circumstances described in CRE20.26, where a past due loan is
      fully secured by those forms of collateral that are not recognised in CRE22.37 and
      CRE22.39, a 100% risk weight may apply when provisions reach 15% of the
      outstanding amount of the loan. These forms of collateral are not recognised
      elsewhere in the standardised approach. Supervisors should set strict operational
      criteria to ensure the quality of collateral.

20.29 In the case of qualifying residential mortgage loans, when such loans are past
      due for more than 90 days they will be risk weighted at 100%, net of specific
      provisions. If such loans are past due but specific provisions are no less than 20%
      of their outstanding amount, the risk weight applicable to the remainder of the
      loan can be reduced to 50% at national discretion.


Higher-risk categories
20.30 The following claims will be risk weighted at 150% or higher:

       (1) Claims on sovereigns, PSEs, banks, and securities firms rated below B-.

       (2) Claims on corporates rated below BB-.

       (3) Past due loans as set out in CRE20.26.

20.31 National supervisors may decide to apply a 150% or higher risk weight reflecting
      the higher risks associated with some other assets.


Other assets
20.32 The risk weight for investments in significant minority- or majority-owned and –
      controlled commercial entities is determined according to two materiality
      thresholds:




       (1) for individual investments, 15% of the bank’s capital; and

       (2) for the aggregate of such investments, 60% of the bank’s capital.

20.33 Investments in significant minority- or majority-owned and –controlled
      commercial entities below the materiality thresholds in CRE20.32 must be risk-
      weighted at 100%. Investments in excess of the materiality thresholds must be
      risk-weighted at 1250%.

20.34 A deduction treatment is specified in CAP30.32 for the following exposures:
      significant investments in the common shares of unconsolidated financial
      institutions, mortgage servicing rights, and deferred tax assets that arise from
      temporary differences. The exposures are deducted in the calculation of Common
      Equity Tier 1 (CET1) if they exceed the thresholds set out in CAP30.32 and CAP30.
      33. As specified in CAP30.34, the amount of the items that are not deducted in
      the calculation of CET1 will be risk weighted at 250%.

20.35 The standard risk weight for all other assets will be 100%. Investments in equity
      or regulatory capital instruments issued by banks or securities firms will be risk
      weighted at 100%, unless deducted from the capital base according CAP30.


However, at national discretion, gold bullion held in own vaults or on
                   an allocated basis to the extent backed by bullion liabilities can be
                   treated as cash and therefore risk-weighted at 0%. In addition, cash
                   items in the process of collection can be risk-weighted at 20%.




       FAQ
       FAQ1        In 2016, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the
                   Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) revised the accounting
                   for lease transactions. Both require that most leases will be reflected on
                   a lessee's balance sheet as an obligation to make lease payments (a
                   liability) and a related right-of-use (ROU) asset (an asset). According to
                   FAQ2 of CAP30.7, an ROU asset should not be deducted from
                   regulatory capital so long as the underlying asset being leased is a
                   tangible asset. When the ROU asset is not deducted from regulatory
                   capital, should it be included in RWA and, if so, what risk weight
                   should apply?

                   Yes, the ROU asset should be included in RWA. The intent of the
                   revisions to the lease accounting standards was to more appropriately
                   reflect the economics of leasing transactions, including both the
                   lessee's obligation to make future lease payments, as well as an ROU
                   asset reflecting the lessee's control over the leased item's economic
                   benefits during the lease term. The ROU asset should be risk-weighted
                   at 100%, consistent with the risk weight applied historically to owned
                   tangible assets and to a lessee's leased assets under leases accounted
                   for as finance leases in accordance with existing accounting standards.



Off-balance sheet items
20.36 Off-balance-sheet items under the standardised approach will be converted into
      credit exposure equivalents through the use of credit conversion factors (CCF).
      Counterparty risk weightings for over-the-counter (OTC) derivative transactions
      will not be subject to any specific ceiling.

20.37 Commitments with an original maturity up to one year and commitments with an
      original maturity over one year will receive a CCF of 20% and 50%, respectively.
      However, any commitments that are unconditionally cancellable at any time by
      the bank without prior notice, or that effectively provide for automatic
      cancellation due to deterioration in a borrower’s creditworthiness, will receive a
      0% CCF.


  In certain countries, retail commitments are considered unconditionally
                   cancellable if the terms permit the bank to cancel them to the full
                   extent allowable under consumer protection and related legislation.




20.38 Direct credit substitutes, eg general guarantees of indebtedness (including
      standby letters of credit serving as financial guarantees for loans and securities)
      and acceptances (including endorsements with the character of acceptances) will
      receive a CCF of 100%.

20.39 Sale and repurchase agreements and asset sales with recourse, where the credit
      risk remains with the bank will receive a CCF of 100%.

These items are to be weighted according to the type of asset and not
                   according to the type of counterparty with whom the transaction has
                   been entered into.


20.40 A CCF of 100% will be applied to the lending of banks’ securities or the posting of
      securities as collateral by banks, including instances where these arise out of repo-
      style transactions (ie repurchase/reverse repurchase and securities lending
      /securities borrowing transactions). See CRE22.37 to CRE22.80 for the calculation
      of risk-weighted assets where the credit converted exposure is secured by eligible
      collateral. This paragraph does not apply to posted collateral that is treated under
      either the standardised approach to counterparty credit risk (CRE52) or the
      internal models method for counterparty credit risk (CRE53) calculation methods
      in the counterparty credit risk framework.

20.41 Forward asset purchases, forward forward deposits and partly-paid shares and
      securities, which represent commitments with certain drawdown will receive a
      CCF of 100%.

These items are to be weighted according to the type of asset and not
                   according to the type of counterparty with whom the transaction has
                   been entered into.


20.42 Certain transaction-related contingent items (eg performance bonds, bid bonds,
      warranties and standby letters of credit related to particular transactions) will
      receive a CCF of 50%.

20.43 Note issuance facilities and revolving underwriting facilities will receive a CCF of
      50%.




20.44


        For short-term self-liquidating trade letters of credit arising from the movement
        of goods (eg documentary credits collateralised by the underlying shipment), a
        20% CCF will be applied to both issuing and confirming banks.

20.45 Where there is an undertaking to provide a commitment on an off-balance sheet
      item, banks are to apply the lower of the two applicable CCFs.


Exposures that give rise to counterparty credit risk
20.46 For exposures that give rise to counterparty credit risk according to CRE51.4 (ie
      OTC derivatives, exchange-traded derivatives, long settlement transactions and
      securities financing transactions), the exposure amount to be used in the
      determination of RWA is to be calculated under the rules set out in CRE50 to
      CRE54.




                                 CRE21
                                 Standardised approach: use
                                 of external ratings
                                 This chapter sets out for the standardised
                                 approach to credit risk the conditions to
                                 recognise an external credit assessment
                                 institution and related implementation
                                 considerations.


                                External credit assessment

The recognition process

21.1   National supervisors are responsible for determining on a continuous basis
       whether an external credit assessment institution (ECAI) meets the criteria listed
       in the paragraph below. National supervisors should refer to the International
       Organization of Securities Commission’s (IOSCO) Code of Conduct Fundamentals
       for Credit Rating Agencies when determining ECAI eligibility. The assessments of
       ECAIs may be recognised on a limited basis, eg by type of claims or by
       jurisdiction. The supervisory process for recognising ECAIs should be made public
       to avoid unnecessary barriers to entry.


Eligibility criteria

21.2   An ECAI must satisfy each of the following six criteria.

       (1) Objectivity: The methodology for assigning credit assessments must be
           rigorous, systematic, and subject to some form of validation based on
           historical experience. Moreover, assessments must be subject to ongoing
           review and responsive to changes in financial condition. Before being
           recognised by supervisors, an assessment methodology for each market
           segment, including rigorous backtesting, must have been established for at
           least one year and preferably three years.

       (2) Independence: An ECAI should be independent and should not be subject to
           political or economic pressures that may influence the rating. The
           assessment process should be as free as possible from any constraints that
           could arise in situations where the composition of the board of directors or
           the shareholder structure of the assessment institution may be seen as
           creating a conflict of interest.

       (3) International access/Transparency: The individual assessments, the key
           elements underlining the assessments and whether the issuer participated in
           the assessment process should be publicly available on a non-selective basis,
           unless they are private assessments. In addition, the general procedures,
           methodologies and assumptions for arriving at assessments used by the
           ECAI should be publicly available.




       (4) Disclosure: An ECAI should disclose the following information: its code of
           conduct; the general nature of its compensation arrangements with assessed
           entities; its assessment methodologies, including the definition of default,
           the time horizon, and the meaning of each rating; the actual default rates
           experienced in each assessment category; and the transitions of the
           assessments, eg the likelihood of AA ratings becoming A over time.

       (5) Resources: An ECAI should have sufficient resources to carry out high quality
           credit assessments. These resources should allow for substantial ongoing
           contact with senior and operational levels within the entities assessed in
           order to add value to the credit assessments. Such assessments should be
           based on methodologies combining qualitative and quantitative approaches.

       (6) Credibility: To some extent, credibility is derived from the criteria above. In
           addition, the reliance on an ECAI’s external credit assessments by
           independent parties (investors, insurers, trading partners) is evidence of the
           credibility of the assessments of an ECAI. The credibility of an ECAI is also
           underpinned by the existence of internal procedures to prevent the misuse
           of confidential information. In order to be eligible for recognition, an ECAI
           does not have to assess firms in more than one country.


Implementation considerations

The mapping process

21.3   Supervisors will be responsible for assigning eligible ECAIs’ assessments to the
       risk weights available under the standardised risk weighting framework, ie
       deciding which assessment categories correspond to which risk weights. The
       mapping process should be objective and should result in a risk weight
       assignment consistent with that of the level of credit risk reflected in the tables
       above. It should cover the full spectrum of risk weights.

21.4   When conducting such a mapping process, factors that supervisors should assess
       include, among others, the size and scope of the pool of issuers that each ECAI
       covers, the range and meaning of the assessments that it assigns, and the
       definition of default used by the ECAI. In order to promote a more consistent
       mapping of assessments into the available risk weights and help supervisors in
       conducting such a process, Standardised approach - implementing the mapping
       process (April 2019) provides guidance as to how such a mapping process may be
       conducted.




21.5



       Banks must use the chosen ECAIs and their ratings consistently for each type of
       claim, for both risk weighting and risk management purposes. Banks will not be
       allowed to “cherry-pick” the assessments provided by different ECAIs and to
       arbitrarily change the use of ECAIs.


Multiple assessments

21.6   If there is only one assessment by an ECAI chosen by a bank for a particular claim,
       that assessment should be used to determine the risk weight of the claim.

21.7   If there are two assessments by ECAIs chosen by a bank which map into different
       risk weights, the higher risk weight will be applied.

21.8   If there are three or more assessments with different risk weights, the
       assessments corresponding to the two lowest risk weights should be referred to
       and the higher of those two risk weights will be applied.


Issuer versus issues assessment

21.9   Where a bank invests in a particular issue that has an issue-specific assessment,
       the risk weight of the claim will be based on this assessment. Where the bank’s
       claim is not an investment in a specific assessed issue, the following general
       principles apply.

       (1) In circumstances where the borrower has a specific assessment for an issued
           debt — but the bank’s claim is not an investment in this particular debt — a
           high quality credit assessment (one which maps into a risk weight lower than
           that which applies to an unrated claim) on that specific debt may only be
           applied to the bank’s unassessed claim if this claim ranks pari passu or senior
           to the claim with an assessment in all respects. If not, the credit assessment
           cannot be used and the unassessed claim will receive the risk weight for
           unrated claims.




       (2) In circumstances where the borrower has an issuer assessment, this
           assessment typically applies to senior unsecured claims on that issuer.
           Consequently, only senior claims on that issuer will benefit from a high
           quality issuer assessment. Other unassessed claims of a highly assessed
           issuer will be treated as unrated. If either the issuer or a single issue has a
           low quality assessment (mapping into a risk weight equal to or higher than
           that which applies to unrated claims), an unassessed claim on the same
           counterparty that ranks pari passu or is subordinated to either the senior

            unsecured issuer assessment or the exposure assessment will be assigned
            the same risk weight as is applicable to the low quality assessment.

21.10 Whether the bank intends to rely on an issuer- or an issue-specific assessment,
      the assessment must take into account and reflect the entire amount of credit risk
      exposure the bank has with regard to all payments owed to it. For example, if a
      bank is owed both principal and interest, the assessment must fully take into
      account and reflect the credit risk associated with repayment of both principal
      and interest.

21.11 In order to avoid any double counting of credit enhancement factors, no
      supervisory recognition of credit risk mitigation techniques will be taken into
      account if the credit enhancement is already reflected in the issue specific rating (
      CRE22.5).


Domestic currency and foreign currency assessments

21.12 Where unrated exposures are risk weighted based on the rating of an equivalent
      exposure to that borrower, the general rule is that foreign currency ratings would
      be used for exposures in foreign currency. Domestic currency ratings, if separate,
      would only be used to risk weight claims denominated in the domestic currency.




 However, when an exposure arises through a bank’s participation in a
                         loan that has been extended, or has been guaranteed against
                         convertibility and transfer risk, by certain multilateral development
                         banks (MDBs), its convertibility and transfer risk can be considered by
                         national supervisory authorities to be effectively mitigated. To qualify,
                         MDBs must have preferred creditor status recognised in the market and
                         be included in the footnote to CRE20.10. In such cases, for risk
                         weighting purposes, the borrower’s domestic currency rating may be
                         used instead of its foreign currency rating. In the case of a guarantee
                         against convertibility and transfer risk, the local currency rating can be
                         used only for the portion that has been guaranteed. The portion of the
                         loan not benefiting from such a guarantee will be risk-weighted based
                         on the foreign currency rating.



Short-term/long-term assessments

21.13 For risk-weighting purposes, short-term assessments are deemed to be issue-
      specific. They can only be used to derive risk weights for claims arising from the
      rated facility. They cannot be generalised to other short-term claims, except
      under the conditions of CRE21.15. In no event can a short-term rating be used to
      support a risk weight for an unrated long-term claim. Short-term assessments
      may only be used for short-term claims against banks and corporates. The table
      below provides a framework for banks’ exposures to specific short-term facilities,
      such as a particular issuance of commercial paper:

           Credit assessment            A-1/P-1         A-2/P-2         A-3/P-3          Others

           Risk weight                   20%             50%             100%            150%



The notations follow the methodology used by Standard and Poor’s
                         (S&P) and by Moody’s Investors Service. The A-1 rating of S&P includes
                         both A-1+ and A-1–.

 The “others” category includes all non-prime and B or C ratings.




21.14 If a short-term rated facility attracts a 50% risk-weight, unrated short-term claims
      cannot attract a risk weight lower than 100%. If an issuer has a short-term facility
      with an assessment that warrants a risk weight of 150%, all unrated claims,
      whether long-term or short-term, should also receive a 150% risk weight, unless
      the bank uses recognised credit risk mitigation techniques for such claims.

21.15 In cases where national supervisors have decided to apply option 2 under the
      standardised approach to short term interbank claims to banks in their
      jurisdiction (see CRE20.13), the interaction with specific short-term assessments is
      expected to be the following:

       (1) The general preferential treatment for short-term claims, as defined under
           CRE20.13 and CRE20.15, applies to all claims on banks of up to three months
           original maturity when there is no specific short-term claim assessment.

       (2) When there is a short-term assessment and such an assessment maps into a
           risk weight that is more favourable (ie lower) or identical to that derived from
           the general preferential treatment, the short-term assessment should be
           used for the specific claim only. Other short-term claims would benefit from
           the general preferential treatment.

       (3) When a specific short-term assessment for a short term claim on a bank
           maps into a less favourable (higher) risk weight, the general short-term
           preferential treatment for interbank claims cannot be used. All unrated short-
           term claims should receive the same risk weighting as that implied by the
           specific short-term assessment.

21.16 When a short-term assessment is to be used, the institution making the
      assessment needs to meet all of the eligibility criteria for recognising ECAIs as
      presented in CRE21.2 in terms of its short-term assessment.


Level of application of the assessment

21.17 External assessments for one entity within a corporate group cannot be used to
      risk weight other entities within the same group.


Unsolicited ratings




21.18 As a general rule, banks should use solicited ratings from eligible ECAIs. National
      supervisory authorities may, however, allow banks to use unsolicited ratings in
      the same way as solicited ratings if they are satisfied that the credit assessments
      of unsolicited ratings are not inferior in quality to the general quality of solicited
      ratings. However, there may be the potential for ECAIs to use unsolicited ratings
      to put pressure on entities to obtain solicited ratings. Such behaviour, when

       identified, should cause supervisors to consider whether to continue recognising
       such ECAIs as eligible for capital adequacy purposes.




                                 CRE22
                                 Standardised approach: credit
                                 risk mitigation
                                 This chapter sets out the standardised
                                 approaches for the recognition of credit risk
                                 mitigation, such as collateral and guarantees.


                                 Overarching issues

Introduction

22.1   Banks use a number of techniques to mitigate the credit risks to which they are
       exposed. For example, exposures may be collateralised by first priority claims, in
       whole or in part with cash or securities, a loan exposure may be guaranteed by a
       third party, or a bank may buy a credit derivative to offset various forms of credit
       risk. Additionally banks may agree to net loans owed to them against deposits
       from the same counterparty.


General remarks

22.2   The framework set out in this chapter is applicable to the banking book
       exposures in the standardised approach. For the treatment of credit risk
       mitigation (CRM) in the internal ratings-based (IRB) approach, see CRE32.

22.3   The comprehensive approach for the treatment of collateral (see CRE22.21 to
       CRE22.30 and CRE22.37 to CRE22.76) will also be applied to calculate the
       counterparty risk charges for repo-style transactions booked in the trading book.

22.4   No transaction in which CRM techniques are used should receive a higher capital
       requirement than an otherwise identical transaction where such techniques are
       not used.

22.5   The effects of CRM will not be double counted. Therefore, no additional
       supervisory recognition of CRM for regulatory capital purposes will be granted on
       claims for which an issue-specific rating is used that already reflects that CRM. As
       stated in CRE21.10, principal-only ratings will also not be allowed within the
       framework of CRM.

22.6   While the use of CRM techniques reduces or transfers credit risk, it
       simultaneously may increase other risks (residual risks). Residual risks include
       legal, operational, liquidity and market risks. Therefore, it is imperative that banks
       employ robust procedures and processes to control these risks, including
       strategy, consideration of the underlying credit, valuation, policies and
       procedures, systems, control of roll-off risks, and management of concentration
       risk arising from the bank’s use of CRM techniques and its interaction with the
       bank’s overall credit risk profile. Where these risks are not adequately controlled,
       supervisors may impose additional capital charges or take other supervisory
       actions as outlined in the supervisory review process standard (SRP).




22.7

       Banks must ensure that sufficient resources are devoted to the orderly operation
       of margin agreements with over-the-counter (OTC) derivative and securities-
       financing counterparties, as measured by the timeliness and accuracy of its
       outgoing calls and response time to incoming calls. Banks must have collateral
       management policies in place to control, monitor and report:

       (1) the risk to which margin agreements exposes them (such as the volatility and
           liquidity of the securities exchanged as collateral),

       (2) the concentration risk to particular types of collateral,

       (3) the reuse of collateral (both cash and non-cash) including the potential
           liquidity shortfalls resulting from the reuse of collateral received from
           counterparties, and

       (4) the surrender of rights on collateral posted to counterparties.

22.8   The disclosure requirements (see DIS40) must also be observed for banks to
       obtain capital relief in respect of any CRM techniques.


Legal certainty

22.9   In order for banks to obtain capital relief for any use of CRM techniques, the
       following minimum standards for legal documentation must be met. All
       documentation used in collateralised transactions and for documenting on-
       balance sheet netting, guarantees and credit derivatives must be binding on all
       parties and legally enforceable in all relevant jurisdictions. Banks must have
       conducted sufficient legal review to verify this and have a well-founded legal
       basis to reach this conclusion, and undertake such further review as necessary to
       ensure continuing enforceability.


Overview of Credit Risk Mitigation Techniques

Collateralised transactions : introduction

22.10 A collateralised transaction is one in which:

       (1) banks have a credit exposure or potential credit exposure; and

       (2) that credit exposure or potential credit exposure is hedged in whole or in
           part by collateral posted by a counterparty or by a third party on behalf of
           the counterparty.


In this section “counterparty” is used to denote a party to whom a bank
                   has an on- or off-balance sheet credit exposure or a potential credit
                   exposure. That exposure may, for example, take the form of a loan of
                   cash or securities (where the counterparty would traditionally be called
                   the borrower), of securities posted as collateral, of a commitment or of
                   exposure under an OTC derivatives contract.


22.11 Where banks take eligible financial collateral (eg cash or securities, more
      specifically defined in CRE22.37 and CRE22.39 below), they are allowed to reduce
      their credit exposure to a counterparty when calculating their capital
      requirements to take account of the risk mitigating effect of the collateral.


Collateralised transactions: overall framework and minimum conditions

22.12 Banks may opt for either the simple approach, which substitutes the risk
      weighting of the collateral for the risk weighting of the counterparty for the
      collateralised portion of the exposure (generally subject to a 20% floor), or for the
      comprehensive approach, which allows a more precise offset of collateral against
      exposures, by effectively reducing the exposure amount by the value ascribed to
      the collateral. Banks may operate under either, but not both, approaches in the
      banking book, but only under the comprehensive approach in the trading book.
      Partial collateralisation is recognised in both approaches. Mismatches in the
      maturity of the underlying exposure and the collateral will only be allowed under
      the comprehensive approach.

22.13 However, before capital relief will be granted in respect of any form of collateral,
      the standards set out below in CRE22.14 to CRE22.17 must be met under either
      approach.

22.14 In addition to the general requirements for legal certainty set out in CRE22.9, the
      legal mechanism by which collateral is pledged or transferred must ensure that
      the bank has the right to liquidate or take legal possession of it, in a timely
      manner, in the event of the default, insolvency or bankruptcy (or one or more
      otherwise-defined credit events set out in the transaction documentation) of the
      counterparty (and, where applicable, of the custodian holding the collateral).
      Furthermore banks must take all steps necessary to fulfil those requirements
      under the law applicable to the bank’s interest in the collateral for obtaining and
      maintaining an enforceable security interest, eg by registering it with a registrar,
      or for exercising a right to net or set off in relation to title transfer collateral.




22.15 In order for collateral to provide protection, the credit quality of the counterparty
      and the value of the collateral must not have a material positive correlation. For
       example, securities issued by the counterparty – or by any related group entity –
       would provide little protection and so would be ineligible.

22.16 Banks must have clear and robust procedures for the timely liquidation of
      collateral to ensure that any legal conditions required for declaring the default of
      the counterparty and liquidating the collateral are observed, and that collateral
      can be liquidated promptly.

22.17 Where the collateral is held by a custodian, banks must take reasonable steps to
      ensure that the custodian segregates the collateral from its own assets.

22.18 A capital requirement will be applied to a bank on either side of the collateralised
      transaction: for example, both repos and reverse repos will be subject to capital
      requirements. Likewise, both sides of a securities lending and borrowing
      transaction will be subject to explicit capital charges, as will the posting of
      securities in connection with a derivative exposure or other borrowing.

22.19 Where a bank, acting as an agent, arranges a repo-style transaction (ie repurchase
      /reverse repurchase and securities lending/borrowing transactions) between a
      customer and a third party and provides a guarantee to the customer that the
      third party will perform on its obligations, then the risk to the bank is the same as
      if the bank had entered into the transaction as a principal. In such circumstances,
      a bank will be required to calculate capital requirements as if it were itself the
      principal.


Collateralised transactions: overall framework and minimum conditions under the
simple approach

22.20 In the simple approach the risk weighting of the collateral instrument
      collateralising or partially collateralising the exposure is substituted for the risk
      weighting of the counterparty. Details of this framework are provided in CRE22.78
      to CRE22.80.


Collateralised transactions: overall framework and minimum conditions under the
comprehensive approach




22.21 In the comprehensive approach, when taking collateral, banks will need to
      calculate their adjusted exposure to a counterparty for capital adequacy purposes
      in order to take account of the effects of that collateral. Using haircuts, banks are
      required to adjust both the amount of the exposure to the counterparty and the
      value of any collateral received in support of that counterparty to take account of
      possible future fluctuations in the value of either, occasioned by market
       movements. This will produce volatility-adjusted amounts for both exposure and
       collateral. Unless either side of the transaction is cash, the volatility-adjusted
       amount for the exposure will be higher than the exposure and for the collateral it
       will be lower.


  Exposure amounts may vary where, for example, securities are being
                   lent.


22.22 Additionally where the exposure and collateral are held in different currencies an
      additional downwards adjustment must be made to the volatility-adjusted
      collateral amount to take account of possible future fluctuations in exchange
      rates.

22.23 Where the volatility-adjusted exposure amount is greater than the volatility-
      adjusted collateral amount (including any further adjustment for foreign
      exchange risk), banks shall calculate their risk-weighted assets as the difference
      between the two multiplied by the risk weight of the counterparty. The
      framework for performing these calculations is set out in CRE22.40 to CRE22.43.

22.24 In principle, banks have two ways of calculating the haircuts: (i) standard
      supervisory haircuts, using parameters set by the Committee, and (ii) own-
      estimate haircuts, using banks’ own internal estimates of market price volatility.
      Supervisors will allow banks to use own-estimate haircuts only when they fulfil
      certain qualitative and quantitative criteria.

22.25 A bank may choose to use standard or own-estimate haircuts independently of
      the choice it has made between the standardised approach and the foundation
      IRB approach to credit risk. However, if banks seek to use their own-estimate
      haircuts, they must do so for the full range of instrument types for which they
      would be eligible to use own-estimates, the exception being immaterial portfolios
      where they may use the standard supervisory haircuts.




22.26 The size of the haircuts that banks must use depends on the prescribed holding
      period for the transaction. The holding period is the period of time over which
      exposure or collateral values are assumed to move before the bank can close out
      the transaction. Banks that use own-estimate haircuts must either use the

       supervisory prescribed minimum holding period, or must scale-up or scale-down
       their estimated haircuts if they have used a holding period that is different to the
       supervisory prescribed minimum. The supervisory prescribed minimum holding
       period is used as the basis for the calculation of the standard supervisory
       haircuts.

22.27 The holding period, and thus the size of the individual haircuts, will depend on
      the type of instrument, type of transaction and the frequency of marking-to-
      market and remargining. For example, repo-style transactions subject to daily
      marking-to-market and to daily remargining will receive a haircut based on a 5-
      business day holding period and secured lending transactions with daily mark-to-
      market and no remargining clauses will receive a haircut based on a 20-business
      day holding period. These haircut numbers will be scaled up using the square
      root of time formula depending on the actual frequency of remargining or
      marking-to-market.

22.28 For certain types of repo-style transactions (broadly speaking government bond
      repos as defined in CRE22.66 and CRE22.67) supervisors may allow banks using
      standard supervisory haircuts or own-estimate haircuts not to apply these in
      calculating the exposure amount after risk mitigation.

22.29 The effect of master netting agreements covering repo-style transactions can be
      recognised for the calculation of capital requirements subject to the conditions in
      CRE22.69. Where repo-style transactions are subject to a master netting
      agreement whether they are held in the banking book or trading book, a bank
      may choose not to recognise the netting effects in calculating capital. In that
      case, each transaction will be subject to a capital charge as if there were no
      master netting agreement.

22.30 As a further alternative to standard supervisory haircuts and own-estimate
      haircuts banks may use value-at-risk (VaR) models for calculating potential price
      volatility for repo-style transactions and other similar securities financing
      transactions (SFTs), as set out in CRE22.74 to CRE22.77 below. Alternatively,
      subject to supervisory approval, they may also calculate, for these transactions, an
      expected positive exposure, as set forth in the internal models method for
      counterparty credit risk (CRE53).


On-balance sheet netting




22.31

        Where banks have legally enforceable netting arrangements for loans and
        deposits they may calculate capital requirements on the basis of net credit
        exposures subject to the conditions in CRE22.82 and CRE22.83.


Guarantees and credit derivatives

22.32 Where guarantees or credit derivatives are direct, explicit, irrevocable and
      unconditional, and supervisors are satisfied that banks fulfil certain minimum
      operational conditions relating to risk management processes they may allow
      banks to take account of such credit protection in calculating capital
      requirements.

22.33 A range of guarantors and protection providers are recognised, and a
      substitution approach will be applied. Thus only guarantees issued by or
      protection provided by entities with a lower risk weight than the counterparty will
      lead to reduced capital charges since the protected portion of the counterparty
      exposure is assigned the risk weight of the guarantor or protection provider,
      whereas the uncovered portion retains the risk weight of the underlying
      counterparty.

22.34 Detailed operational requirements are given below in CRE22.84 to CRE22.89.


Maturity mismatch

22.35 Where the residual maturity of the CRM is less than that of the underlying credit
      exposure a maturity mismatch occurs. Where there is a maturity mismatch and
      the CRM has an original maturity of less than one year, the CRM is not
      recognised for capital purposes. In other cases where there is a maturity
      mismatch, partial recognition is given to the CRM for regulatory capital purposes
      as detailed below in CRE22.97 to CRE22.100. Under the simple approach for
      collateral, maturity mismatches are not allowed.


Miscellaneous

22.36 Treatments for pools of credit risk mitigants and first- and second-to-default
      credit derivatives are given in CRE22.101 to CRE22.105 below.




Collateral

Eligible financial collateral

22.37 The following collateral instruments are eligible for recognition in the simple
      approach:

       (1) Cash (as well as certificates of deposit or comparable instruments issued by
           the lending bank) on deposit with the bank which is incurring the
           counterparty exposure.

       (2) Gold.

       (3) Debt securities rated by a recognised external credit assessment institution
           where these are either:

            (a) at least BB- when issued by sovereigns or public sector entities (PSEs)
                that are treated as sovereigns by the national supervisor; or

            (b) at least BBB- when issued by other entities (including banks and
                securities firms); or

            (c)   at least A-3/P-3 for short-term debt instruments.

       (4) Debt securities not rated by a recognised external credit assessment
           institution where these are:

            (a) issued by a bank; and

            (b) listed on a recognised exchange; and

            (c)   classified as senior debt; and

            (d) all rated issues of the same seniority by the issuing bank must be rated
                at least BBB- or A-3/P-3 by a recognised external credit assessment
                institution; and

            (e) the bank holding the securities as collateral has no information to
                suggest that the issue justifies a rating below BBB- or A-3/P-3 (as
                applicable); and

            (f)   the supervisor is sufficiently confident about the market liquidity of the
                  security.

       (5) Equities (including convertible bonds) that are included in a main index.




       (6) Undertakings for Collective Investments in Transferable Securities (UCITS)
           and mutual funds where:

            (a) a price for the units is publicly quoted daily; and

            (b) the UCITS/mutual fund is limited to investing in the instruments listed in
                this paragraph.


 Cash funded credit linked notes issued by the bank against exposures
                   in the banking book which fulfil the criteria for credit derivatives will be
                   treated as cash collateralised transactions.

 When cash on deposit, certificates of deposit or comparable
                   instruments issued by the lending bank are held as collateral at a third-
                   party bank in a non-custodial arrangement, if they are openly pledged
                   /assigned to the lending bank and if the pledge/assignment is
                   unconditional and irrevocable, the exposure amount covered by the
                   collateral (after any necessary haircuts for currency risk) will receive
                   the risk weight of the third-party bank.

 When debt securities that do not have an issue specific rating are
                   issued by a rated sovereign, banks may treat the sovereign issuer
                   rating as the rating of the debt security.

 However, the use or potential use by a UCITS/mutual fund of derivative
                   instruments solely to hedge investments listed in this paragraph and
                   CRE22.39 shall not prevent units in that UCITS/mutual fund from being
                   eligible financial collateral.


22.38 Re-securitisations (as defined in the securitisation framework), irrespective of any
      credit ratings, are not eligible financial collateral. This prohibition applies whether
      the bank is using the supervisory haircuts method, the own estimates of haircuts
      method, the repo VaR method or the internal models method. It also applies
      whether the transaction is in the banking book or trading book.

22.39 The following collateral instruments are eligible for recognition in the
      comprehensive approach:

       (1) All of the instruments in CRE22.37;




       (2) Equities (including convertible bonds) which are not included in a main index
           but which are listed on a recognised exchange; and

       (3) UCITS/mutual funds which include such equities.


The comprehensive approach : calculation of capital requirement

22.40 For a collateralised transaction, the exposure amount after risk mitigation is
      calculated using the formula that follows, where:

       (1) E* is the exposure value after risk mitigation

       (2) E is current value of the exposure

       (3) He is haircut appropriate to the exposure

       (4) C is the current value of the collateral received

       (5) Hc is haircut appropriate to the collateral

       (6) Hfx is haircut appropriate for currency mismatch between the collateral and
           exposure




22.41 The exposure amount after risk mitigation will be multiplied by the risk weight of
      the counterparty to obtain the risk-weighted asset amount for the collateralised
      transaction.

22.42 The treatment for transactions where there is a mismatch between the maturity
      of the counterparty exposure and the collateral is given in CRE22.97 to CRE22.100.

22.43 Where the collateral is a basket of assets, the haircut on the basket will be
      calculated using the formula that follows, where:

       (1) ai is the weight of the asset (as measured by units of currency) in the basket;
           and

       (2) Hi the haircut applicable to that asset.




The comprehensive approach: standard supervisory haircuts




22.44 These are the standard supervisory haircuts (assuming daily mark-to-market,
      daily remargining and a 10-business day holding period), expressed as
      percentages:

        Issue rating for debt   Residual                                                 Securitisation
                                                       Sovereigns        Other issuers
        securities              Maturity                                                   Exposures

                                   ≤ 1 year                0.5                1                 2

                                 >1 year ≤ 5               2                  4
        AAA to AA-/A-1
                                    years                                                       8

                                  > 5 years                4                  8                 16

        A+ to BBB-/                ≤ 1 year                1                  2                 4

        A-2/A-3/P-3 and unrated bank  securities per para.         >1 year ≤ 5               3                  6
                        years                                                       12
        
        CRE22.37(4)               > 5 years                6                  12                24

        BB+ to BB-                   All                   15            Not Eligible     Not Eligible

        Main index equities and gold                                        15
        

        Other equities (including convertible bonds)   listed on a recognised exchange                                      25
        
        
      
        

        UCITS/Mutual funds                 Highest haircut applicable to any security in fund

        Cash in the same  currency                                            0
       




22.45 In the table in CRE22.44:

       (1) “Sovereigns” includes: PSEs that are treated as sovereigns by the national
           supervisor, as well as multilateral development banks (MDBs) receiving a 0%
           risk weight.





       (2) “Other issuers” includes: PSEs that are not treated as sovereigns by the
           national supervisor.

       (3) “Securitisation exposures” refers to exposures that meet the definition set
           forth in the securitisation framework (see CRE40).

       (4) “Cash in the same currency” refers to eligible cash collateral specified in
           CRE22.37(1).

22.46 The standard supervisory haircut for currency risk where exposure and collateral
      are denominated in different currencies is 8% (also based on a 10-business day
      holding period and daily mark-to-market).

22.47 For transactions in which the bank lends non-eligible instruments (eg non-
      investment grade corporate debt securities), the haircut to be applied on the
      exposure should be the same as the one for equity traded on a recognised
      exchange that is not part of a main index (ie the haircut is 25%).


The comprehensive approach: own estimates for haircuts

22.48 Supervisors may permit banks to calculate haircuts using their own internal
      estimates of market price volatility and foreign exchange volatility. Permission to
      do so will be conditional on the satisfaction of minimum qualitative and
      quantitative standards stated in CRE22.50 to CRE22.59. When debt securities are
      rated BBB-/A-3 or higher, supervisors may allow banks to calculate a volatility
      estimate for each category of security. In determining relevant categories,
      institutions must take into account (a) the type of issuer of the security, (b) its
      rating, (c) its residual maturity, and (d) its modified duration. Volatility estimates
      must be representative of the securities actually included in the category for that
      bank. For eligible debt securities rated below BBB-/A-3 or for equities eligible as
      collateral, the haircuts must be calculated for each individual security.

22.49 Banks must estimate the volatility of the collateral instrument or foreign
      exchange mismatch individually: estimated volatilities for each transaction must
      not take into account the correlations between unsecured exposure, collateral
      and exchange rates (see CRE22.97 to CRE22.100 for the approach to maturity
      mismatches).


The comprehensive approach: own estimates for haircuts - quantitative criteria

22.50 In calculating the haircuts, a 99th percentile, one-tailed confidence interval is to
      be used.




22.51 The minimum holding period will be dependent on the type of transaction and
      the frequency of remargining or marking to market. The minimum holding
       periods for different types of transactions are presented in CRE22.61. Banks may
       use haircut numbers calculated according to shorter holding periods, scaled up to
       the appropriate holding period by the square root of time formula.

22.52 Banks must take into account the illiquidity of lower-quality assets. The holding
      period should be adjusted upwards in cases where such a holding period would
      be inappropriate given the liquidity of the collateral. They should also identify
      where historical data may understate potential volatility, eg a pegged currency.
      Such cases must be dealt with by subjecting the data to stress testing.

22.53 The choice of historical observation period (sample period) for calculating
      haircuts shall be a minimum of one year. For banks that use a weighting scheme
      or other methods for the historical observation period, the “effective” observation
      period must be at least one year (that is, the weighted average time lag of the
      individual observations cannot be less than 6 months).

22.54 Banks should update their data sets no less frequently than once every three
      months and should also reassess them whenever market prices are subject to
      material changes. This implies that haircuts must be computed at least every
      three months. The supervisor may also require a bank to calculate its haircuts
      using a shorter observation period if, in the supervisor's judgement, this is
      justified by a significant upsurge in price volatility.

22.55 No particular type of model is prescribed. So long as each model used captures
      all the material risks run by the bank, banks will be free to use models based on,
      for example, historical simulations and Monte Carlo simulations.


The comprehensive approach: own estimates for haircuts - qualitative criteria

22.56 The estimated volatility data (and holding period) must be used in the day-to-day
      risk management process of the bank.

22.57 Banks should have robust processes in place for ensuring compliance with a
      documented set of internal policies, controls and procedures concerning the
      operation of the risk measurement system.

22.58 The risk measurement system should be used in conjunction with internal
      exposure limits.




22.59 An independent review of the risk measurement system should be carried out
      regularly in the bank’s own internal auditing process. A review of the overall risk
      management process should take place at regular intervals (ideally not less than
      once a year) and should specifically address, at a minimum:

       (1) the integration of risk measures into daily risk management;

       (2) the validation of any significant change in the risk measurement process;

       (3) the accuracy and completeness of position data;

       (4) the verification of the consistency, timeliness and reliability of data sources
           used to run internal models, including the independence of such data
           sources; and

       (5) the accuracy and appropriateness of volatility assumptions.


The comprehensive approach: adjustment for different holding periods and non-
daily mark-to-market or remargining

22.60 For some transactions, depending on the nature and frequency of the revaluation
      and remargining provisions, different holding periods are appropriate. The
      framework for collateral haircuts distinguishes between repo-style transactions (ie
      repo/reverse repos and securities lending/borrowing), “other capital-market-
      driven transactions” (ie OTC derivatives transactions and margin lending) and
      secured lending. In capital-market-driven transactions and repo-style
      transactions, the documentation contains remargining clauses; in secured lending
      transactions, it generally does not.

22.61 The minimum holding period for various products is summarised in the following
      table:

              Transaction type              Minimum holding        Minimum remargining/
                                                 period              revaluation period

        Repo-style transaction            five business days     daily remargining

        Other      capital       market   ten business days      daily remargining
        transactions

        Secured lending                   twenty business days   daily revaluation




22.62 Regarding the minimum holding periods set out in CRE22.61, if a netting set
      includes both repo-style and other capital market transactions, the minimum

      holding period of ten business days must be used. Furthermore, a higher
      minimum holding period must be used in the following cases:

      (1) For all netting sets where the number of trades exceeds 5000 at any point
          during a quarter, a 20 business day minimum holding period for the
          following quarter must be used.

      (2) For netting sets containing one or more trades involving illiquid collateral, a
          minimum holding period of 20 business days must be used. “Illiquid
          collateral” must be determined in the context of stressed market conditions
          and will be characterised by the absence of continuously active markets
          where a counterparty would, within two or fewer days, obtain multiple price
          quotations that would not move the market or represent a price reflecting a
          market discount. Examples of situations where trades are deemed illiquid for
          this purpose include, but are not limited to, trades that are not marked daily
          and trades that are subject to specific accounting treatment for valuation
          purposes (eg repo-style transactions referencing securities whose fair value
          is determined by models with inputs that are not observed in the market).

      (3) If a bank has experienced more than two margin call disputes on a particular
          netting set over the previous two quarters that have lasted longer than the
          bank’s estimate of the margin period of risk (as defined in CRE50.19), then
          for the subsequent two quarters the bank must use a minimum holding
          period that is twice the level that would apply excluding the application of
          this sub-paragraph.

22.63 When the frequency of remargining or revaluation is longer than the minimum,
      the minimum haircut numbers will be scaled up depending on the actual number
      of business days between remargining or revaluation using the square root of
      time formula below, where:

      (1) H = haircut

      (2) HM = haircut under the minimum holding period

      (3) TM = minimum holding period for the type of transaction
       (4) NR = actual number of business days between remargining for capital
           market transactions or revaluation for secured transactions




22.64 For example, for banks using the standard supervisory haircuts, the 10-business
      day haircuts provided in CRE22.44 will be the basis and this haircut will be scaled
      up or down depending on the type of transaction and the frequency of
      remargining or revaluation using the formula below, where:

       (1) H is haircut

       (2) H10 is 10-business day standard supervisory haircut for instrument

       (3) NR is actual number of business days between remargining for capital
           market transactions or revaluation for secured transactions.

       (4) TM is minimum holding period for the type of transaction




22.65 When a bank calculates the volatility on a TN day holding period which is
       different from the specified minimum holding period TM, the HM will be
       calculated using the square root of time formula below, where:

       (1) TN is holding period used by the bank for deriving HN

       (2) HN is haircut based on the holding period TN




The comprehensive approach: conditions for zero H

22.66 For repo-style transactions where the following conditions are satisfied, and the
      counterparty is a core market participant, supervisors may choose not to apply
      the haircuts specified in the comprehensive approach and may instead apply a
      haircut of zero. This carve-out will not be available for banks using the modelling
      approaches as described in CRE22.74 to CRE22.77.




       (1) Both the exposure and the collateral are cash or a sovereign security or PSE
           security qualifying for a 0% risk weight in the standardised approach.

       (2) Both the exposure and the collateral are denominated in the same currency.

       (3) Either the transaction is overnight or both the exposure and the collateral are
           marked-to-market daily and are subject to daily remargining.

       (4) Following a counterparty’s failure to remargin, the time that is required
           between the last mark-to-market before the failure to remargin and the
           liquidation of the collateral is considered to be no more than four business
           days.

       (5) The transaction is settled across a settlement system proven for that type of
           transaction.

       (6) The documentation covering the agreement is standard market
           documentation for repo-style transactions in the securities concerned.

       (7) The transaction is governed by documentation specifying that if the
           counterparty fails to satisfy an obligation to deliver cash or securities or to
           deliver margin or otherwise defaults, then the transaction is immediately
           terminable.

       (8) Upon any default event, regardless of whether the counterparty is insolvent
           or bankrupt, the bank has the unfettered, legally enforceable right to
           immediately seize and liquidate the collateral for its benefit.

 Note that where a supervisor has designated domestic-currency claims
                   on its sovereign or central bank to be eligible for a 0% risk weight in
                   the standardised approach, such claims will satisfy this condition.

This does not require the bank to always liquidate the collateral but
                   rather to have the capability to do so within the given time frame.


22.67 Core market participants may include, at the discretion of the national supervisor,
      the following entities:

       (1) Sovereigns, central banks and PSEs;

       (2) Banks and securities firms;




       (3) Other financial companies (including insurance companies) eligible for a 20%
           risk weight in the standardised approach;

       (4) Regulated mutual funds that are subject to capital or leverage requirements;

       (5) Regulated pension funds; and

       (6) Recognised clearing organisations.

22.68 Where a supervisor applies a specific carve-out to repo-style transactions in
      securities issued by its domestic government, then other supervisors may choose
      to allow banks incorporated in their jurisdiction to adopt the same approach to
      the same transactions.


The comprehensive approach: treatment of repo-style transactions covered under
master netting agreements

22.69 The effects of bilateral netting agreements covering repo-style transactions will
      be recognised on a counterparty-by-counterparty basis if the agreements are
      legally enforceable in each relevant jurisdiction upon the occurrence of an event
      of default and regardless of whether the counterparty is insolvent or bankrupt. In
      addition, netting agreements must:

       (1) provide the non-defaulting party the right to terminate and close-out in a
           timely manner all transactions under the agreement upon an event of
           default, including in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the
           counterparty;

       (2) provide for the netting of gains and losses on transactions (including the
           value of any collateral) terminated and closed out under it so that a single
           net amount is owed by one party to the other;

       (3) allow for the prompt liquidation or setoff of collateral upon the event of
           default; and

       (4) be, together with the rights arising from the provisions required in (1) to (3)
           above, legally enforceable in each relevant jurisdiction upon the occurrence
           of an event of default and regardless of the counterparty's insolvency or
           bankruptcy.

22.70 Netting across positions in the banking and trading book will only be recognised
      when the netted transactions fulfil the following conditions:

       (1) All transactions are marked to market daily; and



       (2) The collateral instruments used in the transactions are recognised as eligible
           financial collateral in the banking book.

 The holding period for the haircuts will depend as in other repo-style
                   transactions on the frequency of margining.


22.71 The formula in CRE22.40 will be adapted to calculate the capital requirements for
      transactions with netting agreements.

22.72 For banks using the standard supervisory haircuts or own-estimate haircuts, the
      formula below will apply to take into account the impact of master netting
      agreements, where:

       (1) E* is the exposure value after risk mitigation

       (2) E is current value of the exposure

       (3) C is the value of the collateral received

       (4) Es is absolute value of the net position in a given security

       (5) Hs is haircut appropriate to Es

       (6) Efx is absolute value of the net position in a currency different from the
           settlement currency

       (7) Hfx is haircut appropriate for currency mismatch


The starting point for this formula is the formula in CRE22.40 which
                   can also be presented as the following:





22.73 The intention here is to obtain a net exposure amount after netting of the
      exposures and collateral and have an add-on amount reflecting possible price
      changes for the securities involved in the transactions and for foreign exchange

       risk if any. The net long or short position of each security included in the netting
       agreement will be multiplied by the appropriate haircut. All other rules regarding
       the calculation of haircuts stated in CRE22.40 to CRE22.68 equivalently apply for
       banks using bilateral netting agreements for repo-style transactions.


The comprehensive approach: use of models

22.74 As an alternative to the use of standard or own-estimate haircuts, banks may be
      permitted to use a VaR models approach to reflect the price volatility of the
      exposure and collateral for repo-style transactions, taking into account
      correlation effects between security positions. This approach would apply to repo-
      style transactions covered by bilateral netting agreements on a counterparty-by-
      counterparty basis. At the discretion of the national supervisor, firms are also
      eligible to use the VaR model approach for margin lending transactions, if the
      transactions are covered under a bilateral master netting agreement that meets
      the requirements of CRE22.69 and CRE22.70. The VaR models approach is
      available to banks that have received supervisory recognition for an internal
      market risk model according to MAR30.2. Banks which have not received
      supervisory recognition for use of models according to MAR30.2 can separately
      apply for supervisory recognition to use their internal VaR models for calculation
      of potential price volatility for repo-style transactions. Internal models will only be
      accepted when a bank can prove the quality of its model to the supervisor
      through the backtesting of its output using one year of historical data. Banks
      must meet the model validation requirement of CRE53.29 to use VaR for repo-
      style and other SFTs. In addition, other transactions similar to repo-style
      transactions (like prime brokerage) and that meet the requirements for repo-style
      transactions, are also eligible to use the VaR models approach provided the
      model used meets the operational requirements set forth in CRE53.34 to CRE53.61
      .




22.75 The quantitative and qualitative criteria for recognition of internal market risk
      models for repo-style transactions and other similar transactions are in principle
      the same as in MAR30.5 to MAR30.18. With regard to the holding period, the
      minimum will be 5-business days for repo-style transactions, rather than the 10-
      business days in MAR30.14(3). For other transactions eligible for the VaR models
      approach, the 10-business day holding period will be retained. The minimum
      holding period should be adjusted upwards for market instruments where such a
      holding period would be inappropriate given the liquidity of the instrument
      concerned. At a minimum, where a bank has a repo-style or similar transaction or
      netting set which meets the criteria outlined in CRE53.24 or CRE53.25, the

       minimum holding period should be the margin period of risk that would apply
       under those paragraphs, in combination with CRE53.26.

22.76 For banks using a VaR model to calculate capital requirements, the previous
      business day's VaR number will be used and the exposure E* will be calculated
      using the following formula:




22.77 Subject to supervisory approval, instead of using the VaR approach, banks may
      also calculate an expected positive exposure for repo-style and other similar SFTs,
      in accordance with the internal models method to counterparty credit risk set out
      in CRE53.


The simple approach: minimum conditions

22.78 For collateral to be recognised in the simple approach, the collateral must be
      pledged for at least the life of the exposure and it must be marked to market and
      revalued with a minimum frequency of six months. Those portions of claims
      collateralised by the market value of recognised collateral receive the risk weight
      applicable to the collateral instrument. The risk weight on the collateralised
      portion will be subject to a floor of 20% except under the conditions specified in
      CRE22.79 to CRE22.80. The remainder of the claim should be assigned to the risk
      weight appropriate to the counterparty. A capital requirement will be applied to
      banks on either side of the collateralised transaction: for example, both repos and
      reverse repos will be subject to capital requirements.


The simple approach: exceptions to the risk weight floor




22.79 Transactions which fulfil the criteria outlined in CRE22.66 and are with a core
      market participant, as defined in CRE22.67, receive a risk weight of 0%. If the
      counterparty to the transactions is not a core market participant the transaction
      should receive a risk weight of 10%.

22.80 The 20% floor for the risk weight on a collateralised transaction will not be
      applied and a 0% risk weight can be applied where the exposure and the
      collateral are denominated in the same currency, and either:

       (1) the collateral is cash on deposit as defined in CRE22.37(1); or

       (2) the collateral is in the form of sovereign/PSE securities eligible for a 0% risk
           weight, and its market value has been discounted by 20%.


Collateralised OTC derivatives transactions

22.81 Under the standardised approach for counterparty credit risk (CRE52), the
      calculation of the counterparty credit risk charge for an individual contact will be
      calculated using the following formula, where:

       (1) Alpha = 1.4

       (2) RC = the replacement cost calculated according to CRE52.3 to CRE52.20

       (3) PFE = the amount for potential future exposure calculated according to
           CRE52.21 to CRE52.73




On-balance sheet netting
22.82 A bank may use the net exposure of loans and deposits as the basis for its capital
      adequacy calculation in accordance with the formula in CRE22.40, when the bank:

       (1) has a well-founded legal basis for concluding that the netting or offsetting
           agreement is enforceable in each relevant jurisdiction regardless of whether
           the counterparty is insolvent or bankrupt;

       (2) is able at any time to determine those assets and liabilities with the same
           counterparty that are subject to the netting agreement;

       (3) monitors and controls its roll-off risks; and

       (4) monitors and controls the relevant exposures on a net basis.




22.83
        When calculating the net exposure described in the paragraph above, assets
        (loans) are treated as exposure and liabilities (deposits) as collateral. The haircuts
        will be zero except when a currency mismatch exists. A 10-business day holding
        period will apply when daily mark-to-market is conducted and all the
        requirements contained in CRE22.44, CRE22.45, CRE22.64 and CRE22.97 to CRE22.
        100 will apply.


Guarantees and credit derivatives

Operational requirements common to guarantees and credit derivatives

22.84 A guarantee (counter-guarantee) or credit derivative must represent a direct
      claim on the protection provider and must be explicitly referenced to specific
      exposures or a pool of exposures, so that the extent of the cover is clearly
      defined and incontrovertible. Other than non-payment by a protection purchaser
      of money due in respect of the credit protection contract it must be irrevocable;
      there must be no clause in the contract that would allow the protection provider
      unilaterally to cancel the credit cover or that would increase the effective cost of
      cover as a result of deteriorating credit quality in the hedged exposure. It must
      also be unconditional; there should be no clause in the protection contract
      outside the direct control of the bank that could prevent the protection provider
      from being obliged to pay out in a timely manner in the event that the original
      counterparty fails to make the payment(s) due.

 Note that the irrevocability condition does not require that the credit
                    protection and the exposure be maturity matched; rather that the
                    maturity agreed ex ante may not be reduced ex post by the protection
                    provider. CRE22.98 sets out the treatment of call options in
                    determining remaining maturity for credit protection.



Additional operational requirements for guarantees

22.85 In addition to the legal certainty requirements in CRE22.9 above, in order for a
      guarantee to be recognised, the following conditions must be satisfied:




       (1) On the qualifying default/non-payment of the counterparty, the bank may in
           a timely manner pursue the guarantor for any monies outstanding under the
           documentation governing the transaction. The guarantor may make one
           lump sum payment of all monies under such documentation to the bank, or
           the guarantor may assume the future payment obligations of the
           counterparty covered by the guarantee. The bank must have the right to
           receive any such payments from the guarantor without first having to take
           legal actions in order to pursue the counterparty for payment.

       (2) The guarantee is an explicitly documented obligation assumed by the
           guarantor.

       (3) Except as noted in the following sentence, the guarantee covers all types of
           payments the underlying obligor is expected to make under the
           documentation governing the transaction, for example notional amount,
           margin payments etc. Where a guarantee covers payment of principal only,
           interests and other uncovered payments should be treated as an unsecured
           amount in accordance with CRE22.92.


Additional operational requirements for credit derivatives

22.86 In order for a credit derivative contract to be recognised, the following conditions
      must be satisfied:

       (1) The credit events specified by the contracting parties must at a minimum
           cover:

           (a) failure to pay the amounts due under terms of the underlying obligation
               that are in effect at the time of such failure (with a grace period that is
               closely in line with the grace period in the underlying obligation);

           (b) bankruptcy, insolvency or inability of the obligor to pay its debts, or its
               failure or admission in writing of its inability generally to pay its debts as
               they become due, and analogous events; and

           (c)   restructuring of the underlying obligation involving forgiveness or
                 postponement of principal, interest or fees that results in a credit loss
                 event (ie charge-off, specific provision or other similar debit to the profit
                 and loss account). When restructuring is not specified as a credit event,
                 refer to CRE22.87.

       (2) If the credit derivative covers obligations that do not include the underlying
           obligation, bullet point 7 below governs whether the asset mismatch is
           permissible.




     (3) The credit derivative shall not terminate prior to expiration of any grace
         period required for a default on the underlying obligation to occur as a
         result of a failure to pay, subject to the provisions of CRE22.98.

     (4) Credit derivatives allowing for cash settlement are recognised for capital
         purposes insofar as a robust valuation process is in place in order to estimate
         loss reliably. There must be a clearly specified period for obtaining post-
         credit-event valuations of the underlying obligation. If the reference
         obligation specified in the credit derivative for purposes of cash settlement is
         different than the underlying obligation, bullet point 7 below governs
         whether the asset mismatch is permissible.

     (5) If the protection purchaser’s right/ability to transfer the underlying
         obligation to the protection provider is required for settlement, the terms of
         the underlying obligation must provide that any required consent to such
         transfer may not be unreasonably withheld.

     (6) The identity of the parties responsible for determining whether a credit event
         has occurred must be clearly defined. This determination must not be the
         sole responsibility of the protection seller. The protection buyer must have
         the right/ability to inform the protection provider of the occurrence of a
         credit event.

     (7) A mismatch between the underlying obligation and the reference obligation
         under the credit derivative (ie the obligation used for purposes of
         determining cash settlement value or the deliverable obligation) is
         permissible if:

         (a) the reference obligation ranks pari passu with or is junior to the
             underlying obligation; and

         (b) the underlying obligation and reference obligation share the same
             obligor (ie the same legal entity) and legally enforceable cross-default
             or cross-acceleration clauses are in place.

     (8) A mismatch between the underlying obligation and the obligation used for
         purposes of determining whether a credit event has occurred is permissible if:

         (a) the latter obligation ranks pari passu with or is junior to the underlying
             obligation; and

         (b) the underlying obligation and reference obligation share the same
             obligor (ie the same legal entity) and legally enforceable cross-default
             or cross-acceleration clauses are in place.




       FAQ
       FAQ1        The conditions outlined in CRE22.86(6) indicates that, in order for a
                   credit derivative contract to be recognised, the identity of the parties
                   responsible for determining whether a credit event has occurred must
                   be clearly defined (the so-called “Determinations Committee”); this
                   determination must not be the sole responsibility of the protection
                   seller; the protection buyer must have the right/ability to inform the
                   protection provider of the occurrence of a credit event. Given the
                   recently developed market practice of the Big Bang Protocol, which all
                   in the credit derivatives industry have signed, how does this protocol
                   affect the recognition of credit derivatives?

                   Credit derivatives under the Big Bang Protocol can still be recognised.
                   CRE22.86 is still satisfied by: (1) the protection buyer having the right
                   /ability to request a ruling from the Determinations Committee, so the
                   buyer is not powerless; and (2) the Determinations Committee being
                   independent of the protection seller. This means that the roles and
                   identities are clearly defined in the protocol, and the determination of
                   a credit event is not the sole responsibility of the protection seller.


22.87 When the restructuring of the underlying obligation is not covered by the credit
      derivative, but the other requirements in CRE22.86 are met, partial recognition of
      the credit derivative will be allowed. If the amount of the credit derivative is less
      than or equal to the amount of the underlying obligation, 60% of the amount of
      the hedge can be recognised as covered. If the amount of the credit derivative is
      larger than that of the underlying obligation, then the amount of eligible hedge is
      capped at 60% of the amount of the underlying obligation.

22.88 Only credit default swaps and total return swaps that provide credit protection
      equivalent to guarantees will be eligible for recognition. The following exception
      applies. Where a bank buys credit protection through a total return swap and
      records the net payments received on the swap as net income, but does not
      record offsetting deterioration in the value of the asset that is protected (either
      through reductions in fair value or by an addition to reserves), the credit
      protection will not be recognised. The treatment of first-to-default and second-
      to-default products is covered separately in CRE22.102 to CRE22.105.

22.89 Other types of credit derivatives will not be eligible for recognition at this time.
      Cash funded credit linked notes issued by the bank against exposures in the
      banking book which fulfil the criteria for credit derivatives will be treated as cash
      collateralised transactions.




Range of eligible guarantors (counter-guarantors)/protection providers

22.90 Credit protection given by the following entities will be recognised:

       (1) sovereign entities, PSEs, banks and securities firms and other prudentially
           regulated financial institutions with a lower risk weight than the counterparty;
            


       (2) other entities that are externally rated except when credit protection is
           provided to a securitisation exposure. This would include credit protection
           provided by parent, subsidiary and affiliate companies when they have a
           lower risk weight than the obligor.

       (3) when credit protection is provided to a securitisation exposure, other entities
           that currently are externally rated BBB- or better and that were externally
           rated A- or better at the time the credit protection was provided. This would
           include credit protection provided by parent, subsidiary and affiliate
           companies when they have a lower risk weight than the obligor.

 This includes the Bank for International Settlements, the International
                   Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank, the European Union, the
                   European Stability Mechanism (and the European Financial Stability
                   Facility, as well as those MDBs referred to in the footnote to CRE20.10.

  This includes other MDBs.

A prudentially regulated financial institution is defined as: a legal
                   entity supervised by a regulator that imposes prudential requirements
                   consistent with international norms or a legal entity (parent company
                   or subsidiary) included in a consolidated group where any substantial
                   legal entity in the consolidated group is supervised by a regulator that
                   imposes prudential requirements consistent with international norms.
                   These include, but are not limited to, prudentially regulated insurance
                   companies, broker/dealers, thrifts and futures commission merchants,
                   and qualifying central counterparties as defined in CRE54.



Risk-weight treatment of transactions in which eligible credit protection is provided

22.91 The general risk-weight treatment for transactions in which eligible credit
      protection is provided is as follows:




       (1) The protected portion is assigned the risk weight of the protection provider.
           The uncovered portion of the exposure is assigned the risk weight of the
           underlying counterparty.

       (2) Materiality thresholds on payments below which no payment is made in the
           event of loss are equivalent to retained first loss positions and must be
           deducted in full from the capital of the bank purchasing the credit protection.

22.92 Where the amount guaranteed, or against which credit protection is held, is less
      than the amount of the exposure, and the secured and unsecured portions are of
      equal seniority, ie the bank and the guarantor share losses on a pro-rata basis,
      capital relief will be afforded on a proportional basis. That is, the protected
      portion of the exposure will receive the treatment applicable to eligible
      guarantees/credit derivatives, with the remainder treated as unsecured.

22.93 Where the bank transfers a portion of the risk of an exposure in one or more
      tranches to a protection seller or sellers and retains some level of risk of the loan
      and the risk transferred and the risk retained are of different seniority, banks may
      obtain credit protection for either the senior tranches (eg second loss portion) or
      the junior tranche (eg first loss portion). In this case the rules as set out in the
      securitisation chapters of the credit risk standard will apply.


Currency mismatches

22.94 Where the credit protection is denominated in a currency different from that in
      which the exposure is denominated — ie there is a currency mismatch — the
      amount of the exposure deemed to be protected will be reduced by the
      application of a haircut HFX, using the formula that follows, where:

       (1) G is nominal amount of the credit protection

       (2) HFX is haircut appropriate for currency mismatch between the credit
           protection and underlying obligation




22.95 The appropriate haircut based on a 10-business day holding period (assuming
      daily marking-to-market) will be applied in the calculation of the formula in the
      paragraph above. If a bank uses the supervisory haircuts it will be 8%. The
      haircuts must be scaled up using the square root of time formula, depending on
      the frequency of revaluation of the credit protection as described in CRE22.63
      and CRE22.65.




Sovereign guarantees and counter-guarantees

22.96 As specified in CRE20.5, a lower risk weight may be applied at national discretion
      to a bank’s exposures to the sovereign (or central bank) where the bank is
      incorporated and where the exposure is denominated in domestic currency and
      funded in that currency. National authorities may extend this treatment to
      portions of claims guaranteed by the sovereign (or central bank), where the
      guarantee is denominated in the domestic currency and the exposure is funded
      in that currency. A claim may be covered by a guarantee that is indirectly counter-
      guaranteed by a sovereign. Such a claim may be treated as covered by a
      sovereign guarantee provided that:

       (1) the sovereign counter-guarantee covers all credit risk elements of the claim;

       (2) both the original guarantee and the counter-guarantee meet all operational
           requirements for guarantees, except that the counter-guarantee need not be
           direct and explicit to the original claim; and

       (3) the supervisor is satisfied that the cover is robust and that no historical
           evidence suggests that the coverage of the counter-guarantee is less than
           effectively equivalent to that of a direct sovereign guarantee.


Maturity mismatches
22.97 For the purposes of calculating risk-weighted assets, a maturity mismatch occurs
      when the residual maturity of a hedge is less than that of the underlying
      exposure.


Definition of maturity




22.98 The maturity of the underlying exposure and the maturity of the hedge should
      both be defined conservatively. The effective maturity of the underlying should
      be gauged as the longest possible remaining time before the counterparty is
      scheduled to fulfil its obligation, taking into account any applicable grace period.
      For the hedge, embedded options which may reduce the term of the hedge
      should be taken into account so that the shortest possible effective maturity is
      used. Where a call is at the discretion of the protection seller, the maturity will
      always be at the first call date. If the call is at the discretion of the protection
      buying bank but the terms of the arrangement at origination of the hedge
      contain a positive incentive for the bank to call the transaction before contractual
      maturity, the remaining time to the first call date will be deemed to be the
      effective maturity. For example, where there is a step-up in cost in conjunction
      with a call feature or where the effective cost of cover increases over time even if
      credit quality remains the same or increases, the effective maturity will be the
      remaining time to the first call.


Risk weights for maturity mismatches

22.99 As outlined in CRE22.35, hedges with maturity mismatches are only recognised
      when their original maturities are greater than or equal to one year. As a result,
      the maturity of hedges for exposures with original maturities of less than one
      year must be matched to be recognised. In all cases, hedges with maturity
      mismatches will no longer be recognised when they have a residual maturity of
      three months or less.

22.100When there is a maturity mismatch with recognised credit risk mitigants
      (collateral, on-balance sheet netting, guarantees and credit derivatives) the
      following adjustment applies, where:

       (1) Pa is value of the credit protection adjusted for maturity mismatch

       (2) P is credit protection (eg collateral amount, guarantee amount) adjusted for
           any haircuts

       (3) t is min (T, residual maturity of the credit protection arrangement) expressed
           in years

       (4) T is min (5, residual maturity of the exposure) expressed in years




Other items related to the treatment of CRM techniques

Treatment of pools of CRM techniques

22.101In the case where a bank has multiple CRM techniques covering a single exposure
      (eg a bank has both collateral and guarantee partially covering an exposure), the
      bank will be required to subdivide the exposure into portions covered by each
      type of CRM technique (eg portion covered by collateral, portion covered by
      guarantee) and the risk-weighted assets of each portion must be calculated
      separately. When credit protection provided by a single protection provider has
      differing maturities, they must be subdivided into separate protection as well.


First-to-default credit derivatives

22.102There are cases where a bank obtains credit protection for a basket of reference
      names and where the first default among the reference names triggers the credit
      protection and the credit event also terminates the contract. In this case, the bank
      may recognise regulatory capital relief for the asset within the basket with the
      lowest risk-weighted amount, but only if the notional amount is less than or
      equal to the notional amount of the credit derivative.

22.103With regard to the bank providing credit protection through such an instrument,
      the risk weights of the assets included in the basket will be aggregated up to a
      maximum of 1250% and multiplied by the nominal amount of the protection
      provided by the credit derivative to obtain the risk-weighted asset amount.


Second-to-default credit derivatives

22.104In the case where the second default among the assets within the basket triggers
      the credit protection, the bank obtaining credit protection through such a
      product will only be able to recognise any capital relief if first-default-protection
      has also be obtained or when one of the assets within the basket has already
      defaulted.

22.105For banks providing credit protection through such a product, the capital
      treatment is the same as in CRE22.103 above with one exception. The exception is
      that, in aggregating the risk weights, the asset with the lowest risk weighted
      amount can be excluded from the calculation.




                                 CRE30
                                 IRB approach: overview and
                                 asset class definitions
                                 This chapter sets out an overview of the internal
                                 ratings-based approach to credit risk, including
                                 the categorisation of exposures, a description of
                                 the available approaches and the roll-out
                                 requirements.


                                 Overview
30.1   This chapter describes the internal ratings-based (IRB) approach for credit risk.
       Subject to certain minimum conditions and disclosure requirements, banks that
       have received supervisory approval to use the IRB approach may rely on their
       own internal estimates of risk components in determining the capital requirement
       for a given exposure. The risk components include measures of the probability of
       default (PD), loss given default (LGD), the exposure at default (EAD), and effective
       maturity (M). In some cases, banks may be required to use a supervisory value as
       opposed to an internal estimate for one or more of the risk components.

30.2   The IRB approach is based on measures of unexpected losses (UL) and expected
       losses. The risk-weight functions, as outlined in CRE31, produce capital
       requirements for the UL portion. Expected losses are treated separately, as
       outlined in CRE35.

30.3   In this chapter, first the asset classes (eg corporate exposures and retail
       exposures) eligible for the IRB approach are defined. Second, there is a
       description of the risk components to be used by banks by asset class. Third, the
       requirements that relate to a bank’s adoption of the IRB approach at the asset
       class level and the related roll-out requirements are outlined. In cases where an
       IRB treatment is not specified, the risk weight for those other exposures is 100%,
       except when a 0% risk weight applies under the standardised approach, and the
       resulting risk-weighted assets are assumed to represent UL only. Moreover, banks
       must apply the risk weights referenced in CRE20.32 to CRE20.34 of the
       standardised approach to the exposures referenced in those paragraphs (that is,
       investments that are assessed against certain materiality thresholds).




       FAQ
       FAQ1        In 2016, the International Accounting Standards Board (IASB) and the
                   Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) revised the accounting
                   for lease transactions. Both require that most leases will be reflected on
                   a lessee's balance sheet as an obligation to make lease payments (a
                   liability) and a related right-of-use (ROU) asset (an asset). According to
                   FAQ2 of CAP30.7, an ROU asset should not be deducted from
                   regulatory capital so long as the underlying asset being leased is a
                   tangible asset. When the ROU asset is not deducted from regulatory
                   capital, should it be included in RWA and, if so, what risk weight
                   should apply?

                   Yes, the ROU asset should be included in RWA. The intent of the
                   revisions to the lease accounting standards was to more appropriately
                   reflect the economics of leasing transactions, including both the
                   lessee's obligation to make future lease payments, as well as an ROU
                   asset reflecting the lessee's control over the leased item's economic
                   benefits during the lease term. The ROU asset should be risk-weighted
                   at 100%, consistent with the risk weight applied historically to owned
                   tangible assets and to a lessee's leased assets under leases accounted
                   for as finance leases in accordance with existing accounting standards.


30.4   For the purposes of minimum capital requirement and disclosure requirement a
       scaling factor of 1.06 must be applied to the risk weighted assets calculated
       under the IRB approach.


Categorisation of exposures
30.5   Under the IRB approach, banks must categorise banking-book exposures into
       broad classes of assets with different underlying risk characteristics, subject to the
       definitions set out below. The classes of assets are (a) corporate, (b) sovereign, (c)
       bank, (d) retail, and (e) equity. Within the corporate asset class, five sub-classes of
       specialised lending are separately identified. Within the retail asset class, three
       sub-classes are separately identified. Within the corporate and retail asset classes,
       a distinct treatment for purchased receivables may also apply provided certain
       conditions are met.




30.6   The classification of exposures in this way is broadly consistent with established
       bank practice. However, some banks may use different definitions in their internal
       risk management and measurement systems. While it is not the intention of the
       Committee to require banks to change the way in which they manage their
       business and risks, banks are required to apply the appropriate treatment to each
       exposure for the purposes of deriving their minimum capital requirement. Banks

       must demonstrate to supervisors that their methodology for assigning exposures
       to different classes is appropriate and consistent over time.


Definition of corporate exposures
30.7   In general, a corporate exposure is defined as a debt obligation of a corporation,
       partnership, or proprietorship. Banks are permitted to distinguish separately
       exposures to small or medium-sized entities (SMEs), as defined in CRE31.9.

30.8   Within the corporate asset class, five sub-classes of specialised lending (SL) are
       identified. Such lending possesses all the following characteristics, either in legal
       form or economic substance:

       (1) The exposure is typically to an entity (often a special purpose entity, or SPE)
           which was created specifically to finance and/or operate physical assets;

       (2) The borrowing entity has little or no other material assets or activities, and
           therefore little or no independent capacity to repay the obligation, apart
           from the income that it receives from the asset(s) being financed;

       (3) The terms of the obligation give the lender a substantial degree of control
           over the asset(s) and the income that it generates; and

       (4) As a result of the preceding factors, the primary source of repayment of the
           obligation is the income generated by the asset(s), rather than the
           independent capacity of a broader commercial enterprise.

30.9   The five sub-classes of SL are project finance (PF), object finance (OF),
       commodities finance (CF), income-producing real estate (IPRE), and high-volatility
       commercial real estate (HVCRE). Each of these sub-classes is defined below.


Project finance




30.10 PF is a method of funding in which the lender looks primarily to the revenues
      generated by a single project, both as the source of repayment and as security
      for the exposure. This type of financing is usually for large, complex and
      expensive installations that might include, for example, power plants, chemical
      processing plants, mines, transportation infrastructure, environment, and
       telecommunications infrastructure. Project finance may take the form of financing
       of the construction of a new capital installation, or refinancing of an existing
       installation, with or without improvements.

30.11 In such transactions, the lender is usually paid solely or almost exclusively out of
      the money generated by the contracts for the facility’s output, such as the
      electricity sold by a power plant. The borrower is usually an SPE that is not
      permitted to perform any function other than developing, owning, and operating
      the installation. The consequence is that repayment depends primarily on the
      project’s cash flow and on the collateral value of the project’s assets. In contrast,
      if repayment of the exposure depends primarily on a well-established, diversified,
      credit-worthy, contractually obligated end user for repayment, it is considered a
      secured exposure to that end-user.


Object finance

30.12 OF refers to a method of funding the acquisition of physical assets (eg ships,
      aircraft, satellites, railcars, and fleets) where the repayment of the exposure is
      dependent on the cash flows generated by the specific assets that have been
      financed and pledged or assigned to the lender. A primary source of these cash
      flows might be rental or lease contracts with one or several third parties. In
      contrast, if the exposure is to a borrower whose financial condition and debt-
      servicing capacity enables it to repay the debt without undue reliance on the
      specifically pledged assets, the exposure should be treated as a collateralised
      corporate exposure.


Commodities finance

30.13 CF refers to structured short-term lending to finance reserves, inventories, or
      receivables of exchange-traded commodities (eg crude oil, metals, or crops),
      where the exposure will be repaid from the proceeds of the sale of the
      commodity and the borrower has no independent capacity to repay the
      exposure. This is the case when the borrower has no other activities and no other
      material assets on its balance sheet. The structured nature of the financing is
      designed to compensate for the weak credit quality of the borrower. The
      exposure’s rating reflects its self-liquidating nature and the lender’s skill in
      structuring the transaction rather than the credit quality of the borrower.




30.14 The Committee believes that such lending can be distinguished from exposures
      financing the reserves, inventories, or receivables of other more diversified
      corporate borrowers. Banks are able to rate the credit quality of the latter type of
      borrowers based on their broader ongoing operations. In such cases, the value of
      the commodity serves as a risk mitigant rather than as the primary source of
      repayment.


Income-producing real estate

30.15 IPRE refers to a method of providing funding to real estate (such as, office
      buildings to let, retail space, multifamily residential buildings, industrial or
      warehouse space, and hotels) where the prospects for repayment and recovery
      on the exposure depend primarily on the cash flows generated by the asset. The
      primary source of these cash flows would generally be lease or rental payments
      or the sale of the asset. The borrower may be, but is not required to be, an SPE,
      an operating company focused on real estate construction or holdings, or an
      operating company with sources of revenue other than real estate. The
      distinguishing characteristic of IPRE versus other corporate exposures that are
      collateralised by real estate is the strong positive correlation between the
      prospects for repayment of the exposure and the prospects for recovery in the
      event of default, with both depending primarily on the cash flows generated by a
      property.


High-volatility commercial real estate

30.16 HVCRE lending is the financing of commercial real estate that exhibits higher loss
      rate volatility (ie higher asset correlation) compared to other types of SL. HVCRE
      includes:

       (1) Commercial real estate exposures secured by properties of types that are
           categorised by the national supervisor as sharing higher volatilities in
           portfolio default rates;

       (2) Loans financing any of the land acquisition, development and construction
           (ADC) phases for properties of those types in such jurisdictions; and




       (3) Loans financing ADC of any other properties where the source of repayment
           at origination of the exposure is either the future uncertain sale of the
           property or cash flows whose source of repayment is substantially uncertain
           (eg the property has not yet been leased to the occupancy rate prevailing in
           that geographic market for that type of commercial real estate), unless the
           borrower has substantial equity at risk. Commercial ADC loans exempted
           from treatment as HVCRE loans on the basis of certainty of repayment or

            borrower equity are, however, ineligible for the additional reductions for SL
            exposures described in CRE33.4.

30.17 Where supervisors categorise certain types of commercial real estate exposures
      as HVCRE in their jurisdictions, they are required to make public such
      determinations. Other supervisors need to ensure that such treatment is then
      applied equally to banks under their supervision when making such HVCRE loans
      in that jurisdiction.


Definition of sovereign exposures
30.18 This asset class covers all exposures to counterparties treated as sovereigns under
      the standardised approach. This includes sovereigns (and their central banks),
      certain public sector entities (PSEs) identified as sovereigns in the standardised
      approach, multilateral development banks (MDBs) that meet the criteria for a 0%
      risk weight under the standardised approach, and the entities referred to in
      CRE20.7.


Definition of bank exposures
30.19 This asset class covers exposures to banks and those securities firms outlined in
      CRE20.16 of the standardised approach. Bank exposures also include claims on
      domestic PSEs that are treated like claims on banks under the standardised
      approach, and MDBs that do not meet the criteria for a 0% risk weight under the
      standardised approach.


Definition of retail exposures
30.20 An exposure is categorised as a retail exposure if it meets all of the criteria set out
      in CRE30.21 (which relate to the nature of the borrower and value of individual
      exposures) and all of the criteria set out in CRE30.22 (which relate to the size of
      the pool of exposures).

30.21 The criteria related to the nature of the borrower and value of the individual
      exposures are as follows:




       (1) Exposures to individuals — such as revolving credits and lines of credit (eg
           credit cards, overdrafts, and retail facilities secured by financial instruments)
           as well as personal term loans and leases (eg instalment loans, auto loans
           and leases, student and educational loans, personal finance, and other
           exposures with similar characteristics) — are generally eligible for retail
           treatment regardless of exposure size, although supervisors may wish to
           establish exposure thresholds to distinguish between retail and corporate
           exposures.

       (2) Residential mortgage loans (including first and subsequent liens, term loans
           and revolving home equity lines of credit) are eligible for retail treatment
           regardless of exposure size so long as the credit is extended to an individual
           that is an owner-occupier of the property (with the understanding that
           supervisors exercise reasonable flexibility regarding buildings containing
           only a few rental units otherwise they are treated as corporate). Loans
           secured by a single or small number of condominium or co-operative
           residential housing units in a single building or complex also fall within the
           scope of the residential mortgage category. National supervisors may set
           limits on the maximum number of housing units per exposure.

       (3) Loans extended to small businesses and managed as retail exposures are
           eligible for retail treatment provided the total exposure of the banking group
           to a small business borrower (on a consolidated basis where applicable) is
           less than €1 million. Small business loans extended through or guaranteed
           by an individual are subject to the same exposure threshold.

       (4) It is expected that supervisors provide flexibility in the practical application of
           such thresholds such that banks are not forced to develop extensive new
           information systems simply for the purpose of ensuring perfect compliance.
           It is, however, important for supervisors to ensure that such flexibility (and
           the implied acceptance of exposure amounts in excess of the thresholds that
           are not treated as violations) is not being abused.

30.22 The criteria related to the size of the pool of exposures are as follows:

       (1) The exposure must be one of a large pool of exposures, which are managed
           by the bank on a pooled basis.




       (2) Small business exposures below €1 million may be treated as retail
           exposures if the bank treats such exposures in its internal risk management
           systems consistently over time and in the same manner as other retail
           exposures. This requires that such an exposure be originated in a similar
           manner to other retail exposures. Furthermore, it must not be managed
           individually in a way comparable to corporate exposures, but rather as part
           of a portfolio segment or pool of exposures with similar risk characteristics

            for purposes of risk assessment and quantification. However, this does not
            preclude retail exposures from being treated individually at some stages of
            the risk management process. The fact that an exposure is rated individually
            does not by itself deny the eligibility as a retail exposure.

30.23 Within the retail asset class category, banks are required to identify separately
      three sub-classes of exposures:

       (1) exposures secured by residential properties as defined above,

       (2) qualifying revolving retail exposures, as defined in the following paragraph,
           and

       (3) all other retail exposures.


Definition of qualifying revolving retail exposures

30.24 All of the following criteria must be satisfied for a sub-portfolio to be treated as a
      qualifying revolving retail exposure (QRRE). These criteria must be applied at a
      sub-portfolio level consistent with the bank’s segmentation of its retail activities
      generally. Segmentation at the national or country level (or below) should be the
      general rule.

       (1) The exposures are revolving, unsecured, and uncommitted (both
           contractually and in practice). In this context, revolving exposures are defined
           as those where customers’ outstanding balances are permitted to fluctuate
           based on their decisions to borrow and repay, up to a limit established by
           the bank.

       (2) The exposures are to individuals.

       (3) The maximum exposure to a single individual in the sub-portfolio is
           €100,000 or less.




      (4) Because the asset correlation assumptions for the QRRE risk-weight function
          are markedly below those for the other retail risk-weight function at low PD
          values, banks must demonstrate that the use of the QRRE risk-weight
          function is constrained to portfolios that have exhibited low volatility of loss
           rates, relative to their average level of loss rates, especially within the low PD
           bands. Supervisors will review the relative volatility of loss rates across the
           QRRE subportfolios, as well as the aggregate QRRE portfolio, and intend to
           share information on the typical characteristics of QRRE loss rates across
           jurisdictions.

      (5) Data on loss rates for the sub-portfolio must be retained in order to allow
          analysis of the volatility of loss rates.

      (6) The supervisor must concur that treatment as a qualifying revolving retail
          exposure is consistent with the underlying risk characteristics of the sub-
          portfolio.


Definition of equity exposures
30.25 In general, equity exposures are defined on the basis of the economic substance
      of the instrument. They include both direct and indirect ownership interests,
      whether voting or non-voting, in the assets and income of a commercial
      enterprise or of a financial institution that is not consolidated or deducted
      pursuant to CAP30. An instrument is considered to be an equity exposure if it
      meets all of the following requirements:

      (1) It is irredeemable in the sense that the return of invested funds can be
          achieved only by the sale of the investment or sale of the rights to the
          investment or by the liquidation of the issuer;

      (2) It does not embody an obligation on the part of the issuer; and

      (3) It conveys a residual claim on the assets or income of the issuer.




    Indirect equity interests include holdings of derivative instruments tied
                   to equity interests, and holdings in corporations, partnerships, limited
                   liability companies or other types of enterprises that issue ownership
                   interests and are engaged principally in the business of investing in
                   equity instruments.

      Where some member countries retain their existing treatment as an
                   exception to the deduction approach, such equity investments by IRB
                   banks are to be considered eligible for inclusion in their IRB equity
                   portfolios.


30.26 Additionally any of the following instruments must be categorised as an equity
      exposure:

      (1) An instrument with the same structure as those permitted as Tier 1 capital
          for banking organisations.

      (2) An instrument that embodies an obligation on the part of the issuer and
          meets any of the following conditions:

           (a) The issuer may defer indefinitely the settlement of the obligation;

           (b) The obligation requires (or permits at the issuer’s discretion) settlement
               by issuance of a fixed number of the issuer’s equity shares;

           (c)   The obligation requires (or permits at the issuer’s discretion) settlement
                 by issuance of a variable number of the issuer’s equity shares and
                 (ceteris paribus) any change in the value of the obligation is attributable
                 to, comparable to, and in the same direction as, the change in the value
                 of a fixed number of the issuer’s equity shares; or,

           (d) The holder has the option to require that the obligation be settled in
               equity shares, unless either (i) in the case of a traded instrument, the
               supervisor is content that the bank has demonstrated that the
               instrument trades more like the debt of the issuer than like its equity, or
               (ii) in the case of non-traded instruments, the supervisor is content that
               the bank has demonstrated that the instrument should be treated as a
               debt position. In cases (i) and (ii), the bank may decompose the risks for
               regulatory purposes, with the consent of the supervisor.




   For certain obligations that require or permit settlement by issuance of
                   a variable number of the issuer’s equity shares, the change in the
                   monetary value of the obligation is equal to the change in the fair
                   value of a fixed number of equity shares multiplied by a specified
                   factor. Those obligations meet the conditions of item 3 if both the
                   factor and the referenced number of shares are fixed. For example, an
                   issuer may be required to settle an obligation by issuing shares with a
                   value equal to three times the appreciation in the fair value of 1,000
                   equity shares. That obligation is considered to be the same as an
                   obligation that requires settlement by issuance of shares equal to the
                   appreciation in the fair value of 3,000 equity shares.


30.27 Debt obligations and other securities, partnerships, derivatives or other vehicles
      structured with the intent of conveying the economic substance of equity
      ownership are considered an equity holding. This includes liabilities from which
      the return is linked to that of equities. Conversely, equity investments that are
      structured with the intent of conveying the economic substance of debt holdings
      or securitisation exposures would not be considered an equity holding.

Equities that are recorded as a loan but arise from a debt/equity swap
                   made as part of the orderly realisation or restructuring of the debt are
                   included in the definition of equity holdings. However, these
                   instruments may not attract a lower capital charge than would apply if
                   the holdings remained in the debt portfolio.

 Supervisors may decide not to require that such liabilities be included
                   where they are directly hedged by an equity holding, such that the net
                   position does not involve material risk.


30.28 The national supervisor has the discretion to re-characterise debt holdings as
      equities for regulatory purposes and to otherwise ensure the proper treatment of
      holdings under the supervisory review process standard SRP.


Definition of eligible purchased receivables
30.29 Eligible purchased receivables are divided into retail and corporate receivables as
      defined below.




Retail receivables

30.30 Purchased retail receivables, provided the purchasing bank complies with the IRB
      rules for retail exposures, are eligible for the top-down approach as permitted
      within the existing standards for retail exposures. The bank must also apply the
      minimum operational requirements as set forth in CRE34 and CRE36.


Corporate receivables

30.31 In general, for purchased corporate receivables, banks are expected to assess the
      default risk of individual obligors as specified in CRE31 (starting with CRE31.3)
      consistent with the treatment of other corporate exposures. However, the top-
      down approach may be used, provided that the purchasing bank’s programme
      for corporate receivables complies with both the criteria for eligible receivables
      and the minimum operational requirements of this approach. The use of the top-
      down purchased receivables treatment is limited to situations where it would be
      an undue burden on a bank to be subjected to the minimum requirements for
      the IRB approach to corporate exposures that would otherwise apply. Primarily, it
      is intended for receivables that are purchased for inclusion in asset-backed
      securitisation structures, but banks may also use this approach, with the approval
      of national supervisors, for appropriate on-balance sheet exposures that share
      the same features.

30.32 Supervisors may deny the use of the top-down approach for purchased corporate
      receivables depending on the bank’s compliance with minimum requirements. In
      particular, to be eligible for the proposed ‘top-down’ treatment, purchased
      corporate receivables must satisfy the following conditions:

       (1) The receivables are purchased from unrelated, third party sellers, and as such
           the bank has not originated the receivables either directly or indirectly.

       (2) The receivables must be generated on an arm’s-length basis between the
           seller and the obligor. (As such, intercompany accounts receivable and
           receivables subject to contra-accounts between firms that buy and sell to
           each other are ineligible.)

       (3) The purchasing bank has a claim on all proceeds from the pool of
           receivables or a pro-rata interest in the proceeds.




       (4) National supervisors must also establish concentration limits above which
           capital charges must be calculated using the minimum requirements for the
           bottom-up approach for corporate exposures. Such concentration limits may
           refer to one or a combination of the following measures: the size of one

           individual exposure relative to the total pool, the size of the pool of
           receivables as a percentage of regulatory capital, or the maximum size of an
           individual exposure in the pool.


    Contra-accounts involve a customer buying from and selling to the
                   same firm. The risk is that debts may be settled through payments in
                   kind rather than cash. Invoices between the companies may be offset
                   against each other instead of being paid. This practice can defeat a
                   security interest when challenged in court.

 Claims on tranches of the proceeds (first loss position, second loss
                   position, etc.) would fall under the securitisation treatment.


30.33 The existence of full or partial recourse to the seller does not automatically
      disqualify a bank from adopting this top-down approach, as long as the cash
      flows from the purchased corporate receivables are the primary protection
      against default risk as determined by the rules in CRE34.4 to CRE34.7 for
      purchased receivables and the bank meets the eligibility criteria and operational
      requirements.


Foundation and advanced approaches
30.34 For each of the asset classes covered under the IRB framework, there are three
      key elements:

       (1) Risk components: estimates of risk parameters provided by banks some of
           which are supervisory estimates.

       (2) Risk-weight functions: the means by which risk components are transformed
           into risk-weighted assets and therefore capital requirements.

       (3) Minimum requirements: the minimum standards that must be met in order
           for a bank to use the IRB approach for a given asset class.




30.35 For many of the asset classes, the Committee has made available two broad
      approaches: a foundation and an advanced approach. Under the foundation
      approach, as a general rule, banks provide their own estimates of PD and rely on

       supervisory estimates for other risk components. Under the advanced approach,
       banks provide more of their own estimates of PD, LGD and EAD, and their own
       calculation of M, subject to meeting minimum standards. For both the foundation
       and advanced approaches, banks must always use the risk-weight functions
       provided in this Framework for the purpose of deriving capital requirements. The
       full suite of approaches is described below.


Corporate, sovereign and bank exposures
30.36 Under the foundation approach, banks must provide their own estimates of PD
      associated with each of their borrower grades, but must use supervisory
      estimates for the other relevant risk components. The other risk components are
      LGD, EAD and M.


 As noted in CRE32.39, some supervisors may require banks using the
                   foundation approach to calculate M using the definition provided in
                   CRE32.41 to CRE32.49.


30.37 Under the advanced approach, banks must calculate the effective maturity (M)
      and provide their own estimates of PD, LGD and EAD.

 At the discretion of the national supervisor, certain domestic exposures
                   may be exempt from the calculation of M (see CRE32.40).


30.38 There is an exception to this general rule for the five sub-classes of assets
      identified as SL.


The SL categories: PF, OF, CF, IPRE, and HVCRE




30.39 Banks that do not meet the requirements for the estimation of PD under the
      corporate foundation approach for their SL assets are required to map their
      internal risk grades to five supervisory categories, each of which is associated
      with a specific risk weight. This version is termed the ‘supervisory slotting criteria
      approach’.

30.40 Banks that meet the requirements for the estimation of PD are able to use the
      foundation approach to corporate exposures to derive risk weights for all classes
      of SL exposures except HVCRE. At national discretion, banks meeting the
      requirements for HVCRE exposure are able to use a foundation approach that is
      similar in all respects to the corporate approach, with the exception of a separate
      risk-weight function as described in CRE31.12.

30.41 Banks that meet the requirements for the estimation of PD, LGD and EAD are able
      to use the advanced approach to corporate exposures to derive risk weights for
      all classes of SL exposures except HVCRE. At national discretion, banks meeting
      these requirements for HVCRE exposure are able to use an advanced approach
      that is similar in all respects to the corporate approach, with the exception of a
      separate risk-weight function as described in CRE31.12.


Retail exposures
30.42 For retail exposures, banks must provide their own estimates of PD, LGD and
      EAD. There is no distinction between a foundation and advanced approach for
      this asset class.


Equity exposures
30.43 There are two broad approaches to calculate risk-weighted assets for equity
      exposures not held in the trading book: a market-based approach and a PD/LGD
      approach. These are set out in full in CRE31.26 to CRE31.45.

30.44 The PD/LGD approach to equity exposures remains available for banks that adopt
      the advanced approach for other exposure types.


Eligible purchased receivables
30.45 The treatment potentially straddles two asset classes. For eligible corporate
      receivables, both a foundation and advanced approach are available subject to
      certain operational requirements being met. For eligible retail receivables, as with
      the retail asset class, there is no distinction between a foundation and advanced
      approach.




Adoption of the IRB approach across asset classes
30.46 Once a bank adopts an IRB approach for part of its holdings, it is expected to
      extend it across the entire banking group with the exception of the banking
      group’s exposures to central counterparties (CCPs) treated under CRE54. The
      Committee recognises however, that, for many banks, it may not be practicable
      for various reasons to implement the IRB approach across all material asset
      classes and business units at the same time. Furthermore, once on IRB, data
      limitations may mean that banks can meet the standards for the use of own
      estimates of LGD and EAD for some but not all of their asset classes/business
      units at the same time.

30.47 As such, supervisors may allow banks to adopt a phased rollout of the IRB
      approach across the banking group. The phased rollout includes (i) adoption of
      IRB across asset classes within the same business unit (or in the case of retail
      exposures across individual sub-classes); (ii) adoption of IRB across business units
      in the same banking group; and (iii) move from the foundation approach to the
      advanced approach for certain risk components. However, when a bank adopts
      an IRB approach for an asset class within a particular business unit (or in the case
      of retail exposures for an individual sub-class), it must apply the IRB approach to
      all exposures within that asset class (or sub-class) in that unit.

30.48 A bank must produce an implementation plan, specifying to what extent and
      when it intends to roll out IRB approaches across significant asset classes (or sub-
      classes in the case of retail) and business units over time. The plan should be
      exacting, yet realistic, and must be agreed with the supervisor. It should be driven
      by the practicality and feasibility of moving to the more advanced approaches,
      and not motivated by a desire to adopt an approach that minimises its capital
      charge. During the roll-out period, supervisors will ensure that no capital relief is
      granted for intra-group transactions which are designed to reduce a banking
      group’s aggregate capital charge by transferring credit risk among entities on the
      standardised approach, foundation and advanced IRB approaches. This includes,
      but is not limited to, asset sales or cross guarantees.

30.49 Some exposures in non-significant business units as well as asset classes (or sub-
      classes in the case of retail) that are immaterial in terms of size and perceived risk
      profile may be exempt from the requirements in the previous two paragraphs,
      subject to supervisory approval. Capital requirements for such operations will be
      determined according to the standardised approach, with the national supervisor
      determining whether a bank should hold more capital under the supervisory
      review process standard SRP for such positions.




30.50 Notwithstanding the above, once a bank has adopted the IRB approach for all or
      part of any of the corporate, bank, sovereign, or retail asset classes, it will be
       required to adopt the IRB approach for its equity exposures at the same time,
       subject to materiality. Supervisors may require a bank to employ one of the IRB
       equity approaches if its equity exposures are a significant part of the bank’s
       business, even though the bank may not employ an IRB approach in other
       business lines. Further, once a bank has adopted the general IRB approach for
       corporate exposures, it will be required to adopt the IRB approach for the SL sub-
       classes within the corporate exposure class.

30.51 Banks adopting an IRB approach are expected to continue to employ an IRB
      approach. A voluntary return to the standardised or foundation approach is
      permitted only in extraordinary circumstances, such as divestiture of a large
      fraction of the bank’s credit-related business, and must be approved by the
      supervisor.

30.52 Given the data limitations associated with SL exposures, a bank may remain on
      the supervisory slotting criteria approach for one or more of the PF, OF, CF, IPRE
      or HVCRE sub-classes, and move to the foundation or advanced approach for
      other sub-classes within the corporate asset class. However, a bank should not
      move to the advanced approach for the HVCRE sub-class without also doing so
      for material IPRE exposures at the same time.

30.53 Irrespective of the materiality, exposures to CCPs arising from OTC derivatives,
      exchange traded derivatives transactions and SFTs must be treated according to
      the dedicated treatment laid down in CRE54. When assessing the materiality for
      the purposes of CRE30.49, the IRB coverage measure used must not be affected
      by the bank’s amount of exposures to CCPs treated under CRE54 – ie such
      exposures must be excluded from both the numerator and the denominator of
      the IRB coverage ratio used.




                                 CRE31
                                 IRB approach: risk weight
                                 functions
                                 This chapter sets out the calculation of risk-
                                 weighted assets for (1) corporate, sovereign and
                                 bank exposures; (2) retail exposures; and (3)
                                 equity exposures.

Introduction
31.1   This chapter presents the calculation of risk weighted assets under the internal
       ratings-based (IRB) approach for: (i) corporate, sovereign and bank exposures; (ii)
       retail exposures; and (iii) equity exposures. Risk weighted assets (RWA) are
       designed to address unexpected losses (UL) from exposures. The method of
       calculating expected losses (EL), and for determining the difference between that
       measure and provisions, is described CRE35.


Explanation of the risk-weight functions
31.2   Regarding the risk-weight functions for deriving risk weighted assets set out in
       this chapter:

       (1) Probability of default (PD) and loss-given-default (LGD) are measured as
           decimals

       (2) Exposure at default (EAD) is measured as currency (eg euros), except where
           explicitly noted otherwise

       (3) ln denotes the natural logarithm

       (4) N(x) denotes the cumulative distribution function for a standard normal
           random variable (ie the probability that a normal random variable with mean
           zero and variance of one is less than or equal to x). The normal cumulative
           distribution function is, for example, available in Excel as the function
           NORMSDIST.

       (5) G(z) denotes the inverse cumulative distribution function for a standard
           normal random variable (ie the value of x such that N(x) = z). The inverse of
           the normal cumulative distribution function is, for example, available in Excel
           as the function NORMSINV.


Risk-weighted assets for corporate, sovereign and bank exposures

Risk-weight functions for corporate, sovereign and bank exposures

31.3   The derivation of RWA is dependent on estimates of the PD, LGD, EAD and, in
       some cases, effective maturity (M), for a given exposure.

31.4   For exposures not in default, the formula for calculating RWA is as follows
       (illustrative risk weights are shown in CRE99):




31.5   If the calculation in CRE31.4 above results in a negative capital charge for any
       individual sovereign exposure, banks should apply a zero capital charge for that
       exposure.

31.6   Regarding the formula set out in CRE31.4 above, M is the effective maturity,
       calculated according to CRE32.39 to CRE32.49, and the following terms are used
       to refer to specific parts of the capital requirements formula:




31.7   The capital requirement (K) for a defaulted exposure is equal to the greater of
       zero and the difference between its LGD (described in CRE36.85) and the bank’s
       best estimate of expected loss (described in CRE36.88). The risk-weighted asset
       amount for the defaulted exposure is the product of K, 12.5, and the EAD.

31.8   A multiplier of 1.25 is applied to the correlation parameter of all exposures to
       financial institutions meeting the following criteria:

       (1) Regulated financial institutions whose total assets are greater than or equal
           to US $100 billion. The most recent audited financial statement of the parent
           company and consolidated subsidiaries must be used in order to determine
           asset size. For the purpose of this paragraph, a regulated financial institution
           is defined as a parent and its subsidiaries where any substantial legal entity
           in the consolidated group is supervised by a regulator that imposes
           prudential requirements consistent with international norms. These include,
           but are not limited to, prudentially regulated Insurance Companies, Broker
           /Dealers, Banks, Thrifts and Futures Commission Merchants.




       (2) Unregulated financial institutions, regardless of size. Unregulated financial
           institutions are, for the purposes of this paragraph, legal entities whose main
           business includes: the management of financial assets, lending, factoring,
           leasing, provision of credit enhancements, securitisation, investments,
           financial custody, central counterparty services, proprietary trading and other
           financial services activities identified by supervisors.




       FAQ
       FAQ1        Can the BCBS clarify the definition of unregulated financial institutions
                   CRE31.8? Does this could include “real” money funds such as mutual
                   and pension funds which are, in some cases, regulated but not
                   “supervised by a regulator that imposes prudential requirements
                   consistent with international norms”?

                   For the sole purpose of CRE31.8, “unregulated financial institution” can
                   include a financial institution or leveraged fund that is not subject to
                   prudential solvency regulation.



Firm-size adjustment for small or medium-sized entities (SMEs)

31.9   Under the IRB approach for corporate credits, banks will be permitted to
       separately distinguish exposures to SME borrowers (defined as corporate
       exposures where the reported sales for the consolidated group of which the firm
       is a part is less than €50 million) from those to large firms. A firm-size adjustment
       (ie 0.04 x (1 – (S – 5) / 45)) is made to the corporate risk weight formula for
       exposures to SME borrowers. S is expressed as total annual sales in millions of
       euros with values of S falling in the range of equal to or less than €50 million or
       greater than or equal to €5 million. Reported sales of less than €5 million will be
       treated as if they were equivalent to €5 million for the purposes of the firm-size
       adjustment for SME borrowers.




31.10

        Subject to national discretion, supervisors may allow banks, as a failsafe, to
        substitute total assets of the consolidated group for total sales in calculating the
        SME threshold and the firm-size adjustment. However, total assets should be
        used only when total sales are not a meaningful indicator of firm size.


Risk weights for specialised lending

31.11 Regarding project finance, object finance, commodities finance and income
      producing real estate sub-asset classes of specialised lending (SL):

        (1) Banks that meet the requirements for the estimation of PD will be able to
            use the foundation approach for the corporate asset class to derive risk
            weights for SL sub-classes. As specified in CRE33.2, banks that do not meet
            the requirements for the estimation of PD will be required to use the
            supervisory slotting approach.

        (2) Banks that meet the requirements for the estimation of PD, LGD and EAD
            (where relevant) will be able to use the advanced approach for the corporate
            asset class to derive risk weights for SL sub-classes.

31.12 Regarding the high volatility commercial real estate (HVCRE) sub-asset class of
      SL, banks that meet the requirements for the estimation of PD and whose
      supervisor has chosen to implement a foundation or advanced approach to
      HVCRE exposures will use the same formula for the derivation of risk weights that
      is used for other SL exposures, except that they will apply the following asset
      correlation formula:




31.13 Banks that do not meet the requirements for estimation of LGD and EAD for
      HVCRE exposures must use the supervisory parameters for LGD and EAD for
      corporate exposures, or use the supervisory slotting approach.


Calculation of risk-weighted assets for exposures subject to the double default
framework

31.14 For hedged exposures to be treated within the scope of the double default
      framework, capital requirements may be calculated according to CRE31.15 to
      CRE31.17.




31.15 The capital requirement for a hedged exposure subject to the double default
      treatment (KDD) is calculated by multiplying K0 as defined below by a multiplier
       depending on the PD of the protection provider (PDg):




31.16 Regarding the formula in CRE31.15 above, K0 is calculated in the same way as a
       capital requirement for an unhedged corporate exposure (as defined in CRE31.3
       to CRE31.10), but using different parameters for LGD and the maturity adjustment
       as follows, where:

       (1) PDo and PDg are the probabilities of default of the obligor and guarantor,
           respectively, both subject to the PD floor set out in CRE32.3.

       (2) The correlation os is calculated according to the formula for correlation (R) in
           CRE31.4, CRE31.8 or CRE31.9, as applicable, with PD being equal to PDo

       (3) LGDg is the LGD of a comparable direct exposure to the guarantor (ie
           consistent with CRE32.20), the LGD associated with an unhedged facility to
           the guarantor or the unhedged facility to the obligor, depending upon
           whether in the event both the guarantor and the obligor default during the
           life of the hedged transaction available evidence and the structure of the
           guarantee indicate that the amount recovered would depend on the
           financial condition of the guarantor or obligor, respectively; in estimating
           either of these LGDs, a bank may recognise collateral posted exclusively
           against the exposure or credit protection, respectively, in a manner
           consistent with CRE32.22, CRE31.11, and CRE36.85 to CRE36.90, as
           applicable. There may be no consideration of double recovery in the LGD
           estimate.

       (4) The maturity adjustment coefficient b is calculated according to the formula
           for maturity adjustment (b) in CRE31.4, with PD being the minimum of PDo
           and PDg.

       (5) M is the effective maturity of the credit protection, which may under no
           circumstances be below the one-year floor if the double default framework is
           to be applied.




31.17 The risk-weighted asset amount is calculated in the same way as for unhedged
      exposures, ie:




Risk-weighted assets for retail exposures
31.18 There are three separate risk-weight functions for retail exposures, as defined in
      CRE31.19 to CRE31.24. Risk weights for retail exposures are based on separate
      assessments of PD and LGD as inputs to the risk-weight functions. None of the
      three retail risk-weight functions contain the full maturity adjustment component
      that is present in the risk-weight function for exposures to banks and corporates.
      Illustrative risk weights are shown in CRE99.


Retail residential mortgage exposures

31.19 For exposures defined in CRE30.19 that are not in default and are secured or
      partly secured by residential mortgages, risk weights will be assigned based on
      the following formula:



 This means that risk weights for residential mortgages also apply to the
                   unsecured portion of such residential mortgages.


31.20 The capital requirement (K) for a defaulted exposure is equal to the greater of
      zero and the difference between its LGD (described in CRE36.85) and the bank’s
      best estimate of expected loss (described in CRE36.88). The risk-weighted asset
      amount for the defaulted exposure is the product of K, 12.5 and the EAD.


Qualifying revolving retail exposures




31.21

        For qualifying revolving retail exposures as defined in CRE30.23 that are not in
        default, risk weights are defined based on the following formula:




31.22 The capital requirement (K) for a defaulted exposure is equal to the greater of
      zero and the difference between its LGD (described in CRE36.85) and the bank’s
      best estimate of expected loss (described in CRE36.88). The risk-weighted asset
      amount for the defaulted exposure is the product of K, 12.5, and the EAD.


Other retail exposures

31.23 For all other retail exposures that are not in default, risk weights are assigned
      based on the following function, which allows correlation to vary with PD:




31.24 The capital requirement (K) for a defaulted exposure is equal to the greater of
      zero and the difference between its LGD (described in CRE36.85) and the bank’s
      best estimate of expected loss (described in CRE36.88). The risk-weighted asset
      amount for the defaulted exposure is the product of K, 12.5, and the EAD.


Risk-weighted assets for equity exposures
31.25 There are two broad methods for calculating risk-weighted assets for equity
      exposures not held in the trading book:




       (1) The market-based approach, which is further subdivided into:

           (a) a simple risk weight method; and

           (b) an internal models method.

       (2) The PD/LGD approach.

31.26 RWA for equity exposures in the trading book are subject to the market risk
      capital rules.

31.27 Supervisors will decide which approach or approaches will be used by banks, and
      in what circumstances. Certain equity holdings are excluded as defined in CRE31.
      43 to CRE31.45 and are subject to the capital charges required under the
      standardised approach.

31.28 Where supervisors permit both methodologies, banks’ choices must be made
      consistently, and in particular not determined by regulatory arbitrage
      considerations.

31.29 Investments in significant minority- or majority-owned and –controlled
      commercial entities below the materiality thresholds in CRE20.33 must be risk-
      weighted using the approaches in this chapter (CRE31), with the relevant risk
      weight subject to a floor of 100%. Investments in excess of the materiality
      thresholds must be risk-weighted at 1250%.


Market-based approach

31.30 Under the market-based approach, institutions are permitted to calculate the
      minimum capital requirements for their banking book equity holdings using one
      or both of two separate and distinct methods: a simple risk weight method or an
      internal models method. The method used should be consistent with the amount
      and complexity of the institution’s equity holdings and commensurate with the
      overall size and sophistication of the institution. Supervisors may require the use
      of either method based on the individual circumstances of an institution.


Market-based approach: simple risk weight method

31.31 Under the simple risk weight method, a 300% risk weight is to be applied to
      equity holdings that are publicly traded and a 400% risk weight is to be applied
      to all other equity holdings. A publicly traded holding is defined as any equity
      security traded on a recognised security exchange.




31.32 Short cash positions and derivative instruments held in the banking book are
      permitted to offset long positions in the same individual stocks provided that

       these instruments have been explicitly designated as hedges of specific equity
       holdings and that they have remaining maturities of at least one year. Other short
       positions are to be treated as if they are long positions with the relevant risk
       weight applied to the absolute value of each position. In the context of maturity
       mismatched positions, the methodology is that for corporate exposures.


Market-based approach: internal models method

31.33 IRB banks may use, or may be required by their supervisor to use, internal risk
      measurement models to calculate the risk-based capital requirement. Under this
      alternative, banks must hold capital equal to the potential loss on the institution’s
      equity holdings as derived using internal value-at-risk models subject to the 99th
      percentile, one-tailed confidence interval of the difference between quarterly
      returns and an appropriate risk-free rate computed over a long-term sample
      period. The capital charge would be incorporated into an institution’s risk-based
      capital ratio through the calculation of risk-weighted equivalent assets.

31.34 The risk weight used to convert holdings into risk-weighted equivalent assets
      would be calculated by multiplying the derived capital charge by 12.5 (ie the
      inverse of the minimum 8% risk-based capital requirement). Capital charges
      calculated under the internal models method may be no less than the capital
      charges that would be calculated under the simple risk weight method using a
      200% risk weight for publicly traded equity holdings and a 300% risk weight for
      all other equity holdings. These minimum capital charges would be calculated
      separately using the methodology of the simple risk weight approach. Further,
      these minimum risk weights are to apply at the individual exposure level rather
      than at the portfolio level.

31.35 A bank may be permitted by its supervisor to employ different market-based
      approaches to different portfolios based on appropriate considerations and
      where the bank itself uses different approaches internally.

31.36 Banks are permitted to recognise guarantees but not collateral obtained on an
      equity position wherein the capital requirement is determined through use of the
      market-based approach.


PD/LGD approach




31.37



        The minimum requirements and methodology for the PD/LGD approach for
        equity exposures (including equity of companies that are included in the retail
        asset class) are the same as those for the IRB foundation approach for corporate
        exposures subject to the following specifications:

        (1) The bank’s estimate of the PD of a corporate entity in which it holds an
            equity position must satisfy the same requirements as the bank’s estimate of
            the PD of a corporate entity where the bank holds debt. If a bank does not
            hold debt of the company in whose equity it has invested, and does not have
            sufficient information on the position of that company to be able to use the
            applicable definition of default in practice but meets the other standards, a
            1.5 scaling factor will be applied to the risk weights derived from the
            corporate risk-weight function, given the PD set by the bank. If, however, the
            bank’s equity holdings are material and it is permitted to use a PD/LGD
            approach for regulatory purposes but the bank has not yet met the relevant
            standards, the simple risk-weight method under the market-based approach
            will apply.

        (2) An LGD of 90% would be assumed in deriving the risk weight for equity
            exposures.

        (3) For these purposes, the risk weight is subject to a five-year maturity
            adjustment whether or not the bank is using the explicit approach to
            maturity elsewhere in its IRB portfolio.

There is no advanced approach for equity exposures, given the 90%
                    LGD assumption.

       In practice, if there is both an equity exposure and an IRB credit
                    exposure to the same counterparty, a default on the credit exposure
                    would thus trigger a simultaneous default for regulatory purposes on
                    the equity exposure.




31.38 Under the PD/LGD approach, minimum risk weights as set out in CRE31.39 and
      CRE31.40 apply. When the sum of UL and EL associated with the equity exposure
      results in less capital than would be required from application of one of the
      minimum risk weights, the minimum risk weights must be used. In other words,
      the minimum risk weights must be applied, if the risk weights calculated

       according to CRE31.37 plus the EL associated with the equity exposure multiplied
       by 12.5 are smaller than the applicable minimum risk weights.

31.39 A minimum risk weight of 100% applies for the following types of equities for as
      long as the portfolio is managed in the manner outlined below:

       (1) Public equities where the investment is part of a long-term customer
           relationship, any capital gains are not expected to be realised in the short
           term and there is no anticipation of (above trend) capital gains in the long
           term. It is expected that in almost all cases, the institution will have lending
           and/or general banking relationships with the portfolio company so that the
           estimated probability of default is readily available. Given their long-term
           nature, specification of an appropriate holding period for such investments
           merits careful consideration. In general, it is expected that the bank will hold
           the equity over the long term (at least five years).

       (2) Private equities where the returns on the investment are based on regular
           and periodic cash flows not derived from capital gains and there is no
           expectation of future (above trend) capital gain or of realising any existing
           gain.

31.40 For all other equity positions, including net short positions (as defined in CRE31.32
      ), capital charges calculated under the PD/LGD approach may be no less than the
      capital charges that would be calculated under a simple risk weight method using
      a 200% risk weight for publicly traded equity holdings and a 300% risk weight for
      all other equity holdings.

31.41 The maximum risk weight for the PD/LGD approach for equity exposures is
      1250%. This maximum risk weight can be applied, if risk weights calculated
      according to CRE31.37 plus the EL associated with the equity exposure multiplied
      by 12.5 exceed the 1250% risk weight.

31.42 Hedging for PD/LGD equity exposures is, as for corporate exposures, subject to
      an LGD of 90% on the exposure to the provider of the hedge. For these purposes
      equity positions will be treated as having a five-year maturity.


Exclusions to the market-based and PD/LGD approaches




31.43

        Equity holdings in entities whose debt obligations qualify for a zero risk weight
        under the standardised approach to credit risk can be excluded from the IRB
        approaches to equity (including those publicly sponsored entities where a zero
        risk weight can be applied), at the discretion of the national supervisor. If a
        national supervisor makes such an exclusion this will be available to all banks.

31.44 To promote specified sectors of the economy, supervisors may exclude from the
      IRB capital charges equity holdings made under legislated programmes that
      provide significant subsidies for the investment to the bank and involve some
      form of government oversight and restrictions on the equity investments.
      Example of restrictions are limitations on the size and types of businesses in
      which the bank is investing, allowable amounts of ownership interests,
      geographical location and other pertinent factors that limit the potential risk of
      the investment to the bank. Equity holdings made under legislated programmes
      can only be excluded from the IRB approaches up to an aggregate of 10% of Tier
      1 plus Tier 2 capital.

31.45 Supervisors may also exclude the equity exposures of a bank from the IRB
      treatment based on materiality. The equity exposures of a bank are considered
      material if their aggregate value, excluding all legislative programmes discussed
      in CRE31.44, exceeds, on average over the prior year, 10% of bank's Total capital.
      This materiality threshold is lowered to 5% of a bank's Total capital if the equity
      portfolio consists of less than 10 individual holdings. National supervisors may
      use lower materiality thresholds.




                                 CRE32
                                 IRB approach: risk
                                 components for each asset
                                 class
                                 This chapter sets out the calculation of the risk
                                 components used (eg PD, LGD, EAD, M) for each
                                 asset class.


                               Introduction
32.1   This chapter presents the calculation of the risk components (PD, LGD, EAD, M)
       that are used in the formulas set out in CRE31. In calculating these components,
       the legal certainty standards for recognising credit risk mitigation under the
       standardised approach to credit risk CRE22 apply for both the foundation and
       advanced internal ratings-based (IRB) approaches.


Risk components for corporate, sovereign, and bank exposures
32.2   This section, CRE32.2 to CRE32.50, sets out the calculation of the risk components
       for corporate, sovereign, and bank exposures.


Probability of default (PD)

32.3   For corporate and bank exposures, the PD is the greater of the one-year PD
       associated with the internal borrower grade to which that exposure is assigned,
       or 0.03%. For sovereign exposures, the PD is the one-year PD associated with the
       internal borrower grade to which that exposure is assigned. The PD of borrowers
       assigned to a default grade(s), consistent with the reference definition of default,
       is 100%. The minimum requirements for the derivation of the PD estimates
       associated with each internal borrower grade are outlined in CRE36.78 to CRE36.
       80.


Loss given default (LGD)

32.4   A bank must provide an estimate of the LGD for each corporate, sovereign and
       bank exposure. There are two approaches for deriving this estimate: a foundation
       internal ratings-based (F-IRB) approach and an advanced internal ratings-based
       (A-IRB) approach.


LGD under the F-IRB approach: treatment of unsecured claims and non-recognised
collateral

32.5   Under the foundation approach, senior claims on corporates, sovereigns and
       banks not secured by recognised collateral will be assigned a 45% LGD.




32.6   All subordinated claims on corporates, sovereigns and banks will be assigned a
       75% LGD. A subordinated loan is a facility that is expressly subordinated to
       another facility. At national discretion, supervisors may choose to employ a wider
       definition of subordination. This might include economic subordination, such as

       cases where the facility is unsecured and the bulk of the borrower’s assets are
       used to secure other exposures.


LGD under the F-IRB approach: collateral recognition

32.7   In addition to the eligible financial collateral recognised in the standardised
       approach CRE22, under the F-IRB approach some other forms of collateral,
       known as eligible IRB collateral, are also recognised. These include receivables,
       specified commercial and residential real estate, and other collateral, where they
       meet the minimum requirements set out in CRE36.127 to CRE36.142. For eligible
       financial collateral, the requirements are identical to the operational standards as
       set out in the credit risk mitigation chapter of the standardised approach to credit
       risk CRE22.


   The Committee, however, recognises that, in exceptional circumstances
                   for well-developed and long-established markets, mortgages on office
                   and/or multi-purpose commercial premises and/or multi-tenanted
                   commercial premises may have the potential to receive alternative
                   recognition as collateral in the corporate portfolio. Please refer to the
                   footnote to CRE20.25 for a discussion of the eligibility criteria that
                   would apply. The LGD applied to the collateralised portion of such
                   exposures, subject to the limitations set out in CRE22.11 to CRE22.76 of
                   the standardised approach, will be set at 35%. The LGD applied to the
                   remaining portion of this exposure will be set at 45%. In order to
                   ensure consistency with the capital charges in the standardised
                   approach (while providing a small capital incentive in the IRB
                   approach relative to the standardised approach), supervisors may
                   apply a cap on the capital charge associated with such exposures so as
                   to achieve comparable treatment in both approaches.



LGD under the F-IRB approach: methodology for recognition of eligible financial
collateral




32.8   The methodology for the recognition of eligible financial collateral closely follows
       that outlined in the comprehensive approach to collateral in the standardised

       approach in CRE22.40 to CRE22.76. The simple approach to collateral presented
       in the standardised approach will not be available to banks applying the IRB
       approach.

32.9   Following the comprehensive approach, the effective loss given default (LGD*)
       applicable to a collateralised transaction can be expressed as follows, where:

       (1) LGD is that of the senior unsecured exposure before recognition of collateral
           (45%).

       (2) E is the current value of the exposure (i.e. cash lent or securities lent or
           posted).

       (3) E* is the exposure value after risk mitigation as determined in CRE22.40 to
           CRE22.43 of the standardised approach. This concept is only used to
           calculate LGD*. Banks must continue to calculate EAD without taking into
           account the presence of any collateral, unless otherwise specified.



32.10 Banks that qualify for the F-IRB approach may calculate E* using any of the ways
      specified under the comprehensive approach for collateralised transactions under
      the standardised approach.

32.11 Where repo-style transactions are subject to a master netting agreement, a bank
      may choose not to recognise the netting effects in calculating capital. Banks that
      want to recognise the effect of master netting agreements on such for
      transactions for capital purposes must satisfy the criteria provided in CRE22.68
      and CRE22.69 of the standardised approach. The bank must calculate E* in
      accordance with CRE22.71 and CRE22.72 or CRE22.73 to CRE22.76 and equate
      this to EAD. The impact of collateral on these transactions may not be reflected
      through an adjustment to LGD.

32.12 As in the standardised approach, for transactions where the conditions in CRE22.
      65 are met, and in addition, the counterparty is a core market participant as
      specified in CRE22.66, supervisors may choose not to apply the haircuts specified
      under the comprehensive approach, but instead to apply a zero H.


LGD under the F-IRB approach: methodology for recognition of eligible IRB
collateral




32.13

        The methodology for determining the effective LGD under the foundation
        approach for cases where banks have taken eligible IRB collateral to secure a
        corporate exposure is as follows.

        (1) Exposures where the minimum eligibility requirements are met, but the ratio
            of the current value of the collateral received (C) to the current value of the
            exposure (E) is below a threshold level of C* (ie the required minimum
            collateralisation level for the exposure) would receive the appropriate LGD
            for unsecured exposures or those secured by collateral which is not eligible
            financial collateral or eligible IRB collateral.

        (2) Exposures where the ratio of C to E exceeds a second, higher threshold level
            of C** (ie the required level of over-collateralisation for full LGD recognition)
            would be assigned an LGD according to the following table.

32.14 The following table displays the applicable LGD and required over-
      collateralisation levels for the secured parts of senior exposures, where:

        (1) Senior exposures are to be divided into fully collateralised and
            uncollateralised portions.

        (2) The part of the exposure considered to be fully collateralised, C/C**, receives
            the LGD associated with the type of collateral.

        (3) The remaining part of the exposure is regarded as unsecured and receives an
            LGD of 45%.




       (4) Other collateral excludes physical assets acquired by the bank as a result of a
           loan default.

                                           Required minimum collateralisation level of  the exposure (C*)                  Required level of over-collateralisation for full LGD recognition (C**)
                               Minimum
                                          
                                 LGD
                                                 

            Eligible Financial collateral             0%                 0%                           n.a.
            
            

            Receivables          35%                0%                          125%

            Commercial or residential real  estate       35%                30%                         140%
            
           

            Other collateral     40%                30%                         140%




Minimum LGD for secured portion of senior exposures



LGD under the F-IRB approach: methodology for the treatment of pools of
collateral

32.15 The methodology for determining the effective LGD of a transaction under the
      foundation approach where banks have taken both financial collateral and other
      eligible IRB collateral is aligned to the treatment in the standardised approach
      and based on the following guidance.

       (1) In the case where a bank has obtained multiple forms of credit risk
           mitigation (CRM), it will be required to subdivide the adjusted value of the
           exposure (after the haircut for eligible financial collateral) into portions each
           covered by only one CRM type. That is, the bank must divide the exposure
           into the portion covered by eligible financial collateral, the portion covered
           by receivables, the portion covered by commercial or residential real estate
           collateral, a portion covered by other collateral, and an unsecured portion,
           where relevant.




       (2) Where the ratio of the sum of the value of commercial or residential real
           estate and other collateral to the reduced exposure (after recognising the
           effect of eligible financial collateral and receivables collateral) is below the
           associated threshold level (i.e. the minimum degree of collateralisation of the

           exposure), the exposure would receive the appropriate unsecured LGD value
           of 45%.

       (3) The risk-weighted assets for each fully secured portion of exposure must be
           calculated separately.


LGD under the advanced approach

32.16 Subject to certain additional minimum requirements specified below, supervisors
      may permit banks to use their own internal estimates of LGD for corporate,
      sovereign and bank exposures. LGD must be measured as the loss given default
      as a percentage of the EAD. Banks eligible for the IRB approach that are unable to
      meet these additional minimum requirements must utilise the foundation LGD
      treatment described above.

32.17 The minimum requirements for the derivation of LGD estimates are outlined in
      CRE36.85 to CRE36.90.


Treatment of certain repo-style transactions

32.18 Banks that want to recognise the effects of master netting agreements on repo-
      style transactions for capital purposes must apply the methodology outlined in
      CRE32.11 for determining E* for use as the EAD. For banks using the advanced
      approach, own LGD estimates would be permitted for the unsecured equivalent
      amount (E*).


Treatment of guarantees and credit derivatives

32.19 There are two approaches for recognition of CRM in the form of guarantees and
      credit derivatives in the IRB approach: a foundation approach for banks using
      supervisory values of LGD, and an advanced approach for those banks using their
      own internal estimates of LGD.




32.20 Under either approach, CRM in the form of guarantees and credit derivatives
      must not reflect the effect of double default (see CRE36.100). As such, to the
      extent that the CRM is recognised by the bank, the adjusted risk weight will not
      be less than that of a comparable direct exposure to the protection provider.
      Consistent with the standardised approach, banks may choose not to recognise
      credit protection if doing so would result in a higher capital requirement.


Treatment of guarantees and credit derivatives: recognition under the foundation
approach

32.21 For banks using the foundation approach for LGD, the approach to guarantees
      and credit derivatives closely follows the treatment under the standardised
      approach as specified in CRE22.84 to CRE22.96. The range of eligible guarantors
      is the same as under the standardised approach except that companies that are
      internally rated may also be recognised under the foundation approach. To
      receive recognition, the requirements outlined in CRE22.84 to CRE22.89 must be
      met.

32.22 Eligible guarantees from eligible guarantors will be recognised as follows:

       (1) For the covered portion of the exposure, a risk weight is derived by taking:

           (a) the risk-weight function appropriate to the type of guarantor, and

           (b) the PD appropriate to the guarantor’s borrower grade, or some grade
               between the underlying obligor and the guarantor’s borrower grade if
               the bank deems a full substitution treatment not to be warranted.

       (2) The bank may replace the LGD of the underlying transaction with the LGD
           applicable to the guarantee taking into account seniority and any
           collateralisation of a guaranteed commitment.

32.23 The uncovered portion of the exposure is assigned the risk weight associated
      with the underlying obligor.

32.24 Where partial coverage exists, or where there is a currency mismatch between the
      underlying obligation and the credit protection, it is necessary to split the
      exposure into a covered and an uncovered amount. The treatment in the
      foundation approach follows that outlined in the standardised approach in CRE22.
      92 to CRE22.95, and depends upon whether the cover is proportional or tranched.


Treatment of guarantees and credit derivatives: recognition under the advanced
approach




32.25
        Banks using the advanced approach for estimating LGDs may reflect the risk-
        mitigating effect of guarantees and credit derivatives through either adjusting PD
        or LGD estimates. Whether adjustments are done through PD or LGD, they must
        be done in a consistent manner for a given guarantee or credit derivative type. In
        doing so, banks must not include the effect of double default in such
        adjustments. Thus, the adjusted risk weight must not be less than that of a
        comparable direct exposure to the protection provider.

32.26 A bank relying on own-estimates of LGD has the option to adopt the treatment
      outlined above for banks under the F-IRB approach CRE32.21 to CRE32.24, or to
      make an adjustment to its LGD estimate of the exposure to reflect the presence
      of the guarantee or credit derivative. Under this option, there are no limits to the
      range of eligible guarantors although the set of minimum requirements provided
      in CRE36.101 to CRE36.102 concerning the type of guarantee must be satisfied.
      For credit derivatives, the requirements of CRE36.106 to CRE36.107 must be
      satisfied. When credit derivatives do not cover the restructuring of the underlying
      obligation, the partial recognition set out in CRE22.87 applies.


Operational requirements for recognition of double default

32.27 A bank using an IRB approach has the option of using the substitution approach
      in determining the appropriate capital requirement for an exposure. However, for
      exposures hedged by one of the following instruments the double default
      framework according to CRE31.14 to CRE31.17 may be applied subject to the
      additional operational requirements set out in CRE32.28. A bank may decide
      separately for each eligible exposure to apply either the double default
      framework or the substitution approach.

        (1) Single-name, unfunded credit derivatives (eg credit default swaps) or single-
            name guarantees.

        (2) First-to-default basket products — the double default treatment will be
            applied to the asset within the basket with the lowest risk-weighted amount.

        (3) nth-to-default basket products — the protection obtained is only eligible for
            consideration under the double default framework if eligible (n–1)th default
            protection has also been obtained or where (n–1) of the assets within the
            basket have already defaulted.

32.28 The double default framework is only applicable where the following conditions
      are met:




     (1) The risk weight that is associated with the exposure prior to the application
         of the framework does not already factor in any aspect of the credit
         protection.

     (2) The entity selling credit protection is a bank2, investment firm or insurance
         company (but only those that are in the business of providing credit
         protection, including mono-lines, re-insurers, and non-sovereign credit
         export agencies3), referred to as a financial firm, that:

         (a) is regulated in a manner broadly equivalent to that in this Framework
             (where there is appropriate supervisory oversight and transparency
             /market discipline), or externally rated as at least investment grade by a
             credit rating agency deemed suitable for this purpose by supervisors;

         (b) had an internal rating with a PD equivalent to or lower than that
             associated with an external A– rating at the time the credit protection
             for an exposure was first provided or for any period of time thereafter;
             and

         (c)   has an internal rating with a PD equivalent to or lower than that
               associated with an external investment-grade rating.

     (3) The underlying obligation is:

         (a) a corporate exposure as defined in CRE30.6 to CRE30.16 (excluding
             specialised lending exposures for which the supervisory slotting criteria
             approach described in CRE33.2 to CRE33.7 is being used); or

         (b) a claim on a public sector entity (PSE) that is not a sovereign exposure
             as defined in CRE30.17; or

         (c)   a loan extended to a small business and classified as a retail exposure as
               defined in CRE30.21(2).

     (4) The underlying obligor is not:

         (a) a financial firm as defined in (2); or

         (b) a member of the same group as the protection provider.

     (5) The credit protection meets the minimum operational requirements for such
         instruments as outlined in CRE22.84 to CRE22.88.




     (6) In keeping with CRE22.85 for guarantees, for any recognition of double
         default effects for both guarantees and credit derivatives a bank must have
         the right and expectation to receive payment from the credit protection
         provider without having to take legal action in order to pursue the
         counterparty for payment. To the extent possible, a bank should take steps
         to satisfy itself that the protection provider is willing to pay promptly if a
         credit event should occur.

     (7) The purchased credit protection absorbs all credit losses incurred on the
         hedged portion of an exposure that arise due to the credit events outlined in
         the contract.

     (8) If the payout structure provides for physical settlement, then there must be
         legal certainty with respect to the deliverability of a loan, bond, or
         contingent liability. If a bank intends to deliver an obligation other than the
         underlying exposure, it must ensure that the deliverable obligation is
         sufficiently liquid so that the bank would have the ability to purchase it for
         delivery in accordance with the contract.

     (9) The terms and conditions of credit protection arrangements must be legally
         confirmed in writing by both the credit protection provider and the bank.

     (10) In the case of protection against dilution risk, the seller of purchased
          receivables must not be a member of the same group as the protection
          provider.

     (11) There is no excessive correlation between the creditworthiness of a
          protection provider and the obligor of the underlying exposure due to their
          performance being dependent on common factors beyond the systematic
          risk factor. The bank has a process to detect such excessive correlation. An
          example of a situation in which such excessive correlation would arise is
          when a protection provider guarantees the debt of a supplier of goods or
          services and the supplier derives a high proportion of its income or revenue
          from the protection provider.


     Footnotes
     2           This does not include PSEs and multilateral development banks, even
                 though claims on these may be treated as claims on banks according
                 to CRE30.18.

     3           By non-sovereign it is meant that credit protection in question does not
                 benefit from any explicit sovereign counter-guarantee.




Exposure at default (EAD)

32.29 The following sections apply to both on and off-balance sheet positions. All
      exposures are measured gross of specific provisions or partial write-offs. The EAD
      on drawn amounts should not be less than the sum of (i) the amount by which a
      bank’s regulatory capital would be reduced if the exposure were written-off fully,
      and (ii) any specific provisions and partial write-offs. When the difference
      between the instrument’s EAD and the sum of (i) and (ii) is positive, this amount is
      termed a discount. The calculation of risk-weighted assets is independent of any
      discounts. Under the limited circumstances described in CRE35.4, discounts may
      be included in the measurement of total eligible provisions for purposes of the
      EL-provision calculation set out in CRE35.


Exposure measurement for on-balance sheet items

32.30 On-balance sheet netting of loans and deposits will be recognised subject to the
      same conditions as under the standardised approach (see CRE22.82 to CRE22.83).
      Where currency or maturity mismatched on-balance sheet netting exists, the
      treatment follows the standardised approach, as set out in CRE22.94, CRE22.95
      and CRE22.97 to CRE22.100.


Exposure measurement for off-balance sheet items (with the exception of foreign
exchange and interest-rate, equity, and commodity-related derivatives)

32.31 For off-balance sheet items, exposure is calculated as the committed but
      undrawn amount multiplied by a credit conversion factor (CCF). There are two
      approaches for the estimation of CCFs: a foundation approach and an advanced
      approach. When only the drawn balances of revolving facilities have been
      securitised, banks must ensure that they continue to hold required capital against
      the undrawn balances associated with the securitised exposures.


EAD under the foundation approach

32.32 The types of instruments and the CCFs applied to them are the same as those in
      the standardised approach, as outlined in CRE20.35 to CRE20.45 with the
      exception of commitments, Note Issuance Facilities (NIFs) and Revolving
      Underwriting Facilities (RUFs).




32.33 A CCF of 75% will be applied to commitments, NIFs and RUFs regardless of the
      maturity of the underlying facility. This does not apply to those facilities which are
      uncommitted, that are unconditionally cancellable, or that effectively provide for
      automatic cancellation, for example due to deterioration in a borrower’s

       creditworthiness, at any time by the bank without prior notice. A CCF of 0% will
       be applied to these facilities.

32.34 The amount to which the CCF is applied is the lower of the value of the unused
      committed credit line, and the value that reflects any possible constraining
      availability of the facility, such as the existence of a ceiling on the potential
      lending amount which is related to a borrower’s reported cash flow. If the facility
      is constrained in this way, the bank must have sufficient line monitoring and
      management procedures to support this contention.

32.35 In order to apply a 0% CCF for unconditionally and immediately cancellable
      corporate overdrafts and other facilities, banks must demonstrate that they
      actively monitor the financial condition of the borrower, and that their internal
      control systems are such that they could cancel the facility upon evidence of a
      deterioration in the credit quality of the borrower.

32.36 Where a commitment is obtained on another off-balance sheet exposure, banks
      under the foundation approach are to apply the lower of the applicable CCFs.


EAD under the advanced approach

32.37 Banks which meet the minimum requirements for use of their own estimates of
      EAD (see CRE36.91 to CRE36.96) will be allowed to use their own internal
      estimates of CCFs across different product types provided the exposure is not
      subject to a CCF of 100% in the foundation approach (see CRE32.32).


Exposures that give rise to counterparty credit risk

32.38 For exposures that give rise to counterparty credit risk according to CRE51.4 (ie
      over-the-counter, or OTC, derivatives, exchange-traded derivatives, long
      settlement transactions and securities financing transactions), the EAD is to be
      calculated under the rules set forth in CRE50 to CRE54.


Effective maturity (M)




32.39 For banks using the foundation approach for corporate exposures, effective
      maturity (M) will be 2.5 years except for repo-style transactions where the



       effective maturity will be 6 months. National supervisors may choose to require
       all banks in their jurisdiction (those using the foundation and advanced
       approaches) to measure M for each facility using the definition provided below.

32.40 Banks using any element of the A-IRB approach are required to measure effective
      maturity for each facility as defined below. However, national supervisors may
      exempt facilities to certain smaller domestic corporate borrowers from the
      explicit maturity adjustment if the reported sales (ie turnover) as well as total
      assets for the consolidated group of which the firm is a part of are less than €500
      million. The consolidated group has to be a domestic company based in the
      country where the exemption is applied. If adopted, national supervisors must
      apply such an exemption to all IRB banks using the advanced approach in that
      country, rather than on a bank-by-bank basis. If the exemption is applied, all
      exposures to qualifying smaller domestic firms will be assumed to have an
      average maturity of 2.5 years, as under the F-IRB approach.

32.41 Except as noted in CRE32.45, M is defined as the greater of one year and the
      remaining effective maturity in years as defined below. In all cases, M will be no
      greater than 5 years.

32.42 For an instrument subject to a determined cash flow schedule, effective maturity
      M is defined as follows, where CFt denotes the cash flows (principal, interest
       payments and fees) contractually payable by the borrower in period t:




32.43 If a bank is not in a position to calculate the effective maturity of the contracted
      payments as noted above, it is allowed to use a more conservative measure of M
      such as that it equals the maximum remaining time (in years) that the borrower is
      permitted to take to fully discharge its contractual obligation (principal, interest,
      and fees) under the terms of loan agreement. Normally, this will correspond to
      the nominal maturity of the instrument.

32.44 For derivatives subject to a master netting agreement, the weighted average
      maturity of the transactions should be used when applying the explicit maturity
      adjustment. Further, the notional amount of each transaction should be used for
      weighting the maturity.




32.45 The one-year floor does not apply to certain short-term exposures, comprising
      fully or nearly-fully collateralised capital market-driven transactions (ie OTC

       derivatives transactions and margin lending) and repo-style transactions (ie repos
       /reverse repos and securities lending/borrowing) with an original maturity of less
       than one year, where the documentation contains daily remargining clauses. For
       all eligible transactions the documentation must require daily revaluation, and
       must include provisions that must allow for the prompt liquidation or setoff of
       the collateral in the event of default or failure to re-margin. The maturity of such
       transactions must be calculated as the greater of one-day, and the effective
       maturity (M, consistent with the definition above).


The intention is to include both parties of a transaction meeting these
                   conditions where neither of the parties is systematically under-
                   collateralised.


32.46 The one-year floor also does not apply to the following exposures:

       (1) Short-term self-liquidating trade transactions. Import and export letters of
           credit and similar transactions should be accounted for at their actual
           remaining maturity.

       (2) Issued as well as confirmed letters of credit that are short term (ie have a
           maturity below one year) and self-liquidating.

32.47 In addition to the transactions considered in CRE32.45 above, other short-term
      exposures with an original maturity of less than one year that are not part of a
      bank’s ongoing financing of an obligor may be eligible for exemption from the
      one-year floor. After a careful review of the particular circumstances in their
      jurisdictions, national supervisors should define the types of short-term
      exposures that might be considered eligible for this treatment. The results of
      these reviews might, for example, include transactions such as:

       (1) Some capital market-driven transactions and repo-style transactions that
           might not fall within the scope of CRE32.45;

       (2) Some trade finance transactions that are not exempted by CRE32.46.

       (3) Some exposures arising from settling securities purchases and sales. This
           could also include overdrafts arising from failed securities settlements
           provided that such overdrafts do not continue more than a short, fixed
           number of business days;




       (4) Some exposures arising from cash settlements by wire transfer, including
           overdrafts arising from failed transfers provided that such overdrafts do not
           continue more than a short, fixed number of business days;

       (5) Some exposures to banks arising from foreign exchange settlements; and

       (6) Some short-term loans and deposits.

32.48 For transactions falling within the scope of CRE32.45 subject to a master netting
      agreement, the weighted average maturity of the transactions should be used
      when applying the explicit maturity adjustment. A floor equal to the minimum
      holding period for the transaction type set out in CRE22.61 will apply to the
      average. Where more than one transaction type is contained in the master
      netting agreement a floor equal to the highest holding period will apply to the
      average. Further, the notional amount of each transaction should be used for
      weighting maturity.

32.49 Where there is no explicit adjustment, the effective maturity (M) assigned to all
      exposures is set at 2.5 years unless otherwise specified in CRE32.39.


Treatment of maturity mismatches

32.50 The treatment of maturity mismatches under IRB is identical to that in the
      standardised approach (see CRE22.97 to CRE22.100).


Risk components for retail exposures

Probability of default (PD) and loss given default (LGD)

32.51 For each identified pool of retail exposures, banks are expected to provide an
      estimate of the PD and LGD associated with the pool, subject to the minimum
      requirements as set out in CRE36. Additionally, the PD for retail exposures is the
      greater of the one-year PD associated with the internal borrower grade to which
      the pool of retail exposures is assigned or 0.03%.

32.52 LGDs for retail exposures secured by residential properties cannot be set below
      10% for any sub-segment of exposures to which the formula in CRE31.19 is
      applied. The 10% LGD floor shall not apply, however, to sub-segments that are
      subject to/benefit from sovereign guarantees. Further, the existence of the floor
      does not imply any waiver of the requirements of LGD estimation as laid out in
      the minimum requirements starting with CRE36.85.




Recognition of guarantees and credit derivatives

32.53 Banks may reflect the risk-reducing effects of guarantees and credit derivatives,
      either in support of an individual obligation or a pool of exposures, through an
      adjustment of either the PD or LGD estimate, subject to the minimum
      requirements in CRE36.98 to CRE36.107. Whether adjustments are done through
      PD or LGD, they must be done in a consistent manner for a given guarantee or
      credit derivative type.

32.54 Consistent with the requirements outlined above for corporate, sovereign, and
      bank exposures, banks must not include the effect of double default in such
      adjustments. The adjusted risk weight must not be less than that of a comparable
      direct exposure to the protection provider. Consistent with the standardised
      approach, banks may choose not to recognise credit protection if doing so would
      result in a higher capital requirement.


Exposure at default (EAD)

32.55 Both on and off-balance sheet retail exposures are measured gross of specific
      provisions or partial write-offs. The EAD on drawn amounts should not be less
      than the sum of (i) the amount by which a bank’s regulatory capital would be
      reduced if the exposure were written-off fully, and (ii) any specific provisions and
      partial write-offs. When the difference between the instrument’s EAD and the
      sum of (i) and (ii) is positive, this amount is termed a discount. The calculation of
      risk-weighted assets is independent of any discounts. Under the limited
      circumstances described in CRE35.4, discounts may be included in the
      measurement of total eligible provisions for purposes of the EL-provision
      calculation set out in CRE35.

32.56 On-balance sheet netting of loans and deposits of a bank to or from a retail
      customer will be permitted subject to the same conditions outlined in CRE22.82
      and CRE22.83 of the standardised approach. For retail off-balance sheet items,
      banks must use their own estimates of CCFs provided the minimum requirements
      in CRE36.91 to CRE36.94 and CRE36.97 are satisfied.

32.57 For retail exposures with uncertain future drawdown such as credit cards, banks
      must take into account their history and/or expectation of additional drawings
      prior to default in their overall calibration of loss estimates. In particular, where a
      bank does not reflect conversion factors for undrawn lines in its EAD estimates, it
      must reflect in its LGD estimates the likelihood of additional drawings prior to
      default. Conversely, if the bank does not incorporate the possibility of additional
      drawings in its LGD estimates, it must do so in its EAD estimates.




32.58 When only the drawn balances of revolving retail facilities have been securitised,
      banks must ensure that they continue to hold required capital against the
      undrawn balances associated with securitised exposures using the IRB approach
      to credit risk for commitments.

32.59 To the extent that foreign exchange and interest rate commitments exist within a
      bank’s retail portfolio for IRB purposes, banks are not permitted to provide their
      internal assessments of credit equivalent amounts. Instead, the rules for the
      standardised approach continue to apply.


Risk components for equity exposures
32.60 In general, the measure of an equity exposure on which capital requirements is
      based is the value presented in the financial statements, which depending on
      national accounting and regulatory practices may include unrealised revaluation
      gains. Thus, for example, equity exposure measures will be:

       (1) For investments held at fair value with changes in value flowing directly
           through income and into regulatory capital, exposure is equal to the fair
           value presented in the balance sheet.

       (2) For investments held at fair value with changes in value not flowing through
           income but into a tax-adjusted separate component of equity, exposure is
           equal to the fair value presented in the balance sheet.

       (3) For investments held at cost or at the lower of cost or market, exposure is
           equal to the cost or market value presented in the balance sheet.




                                 CRE33
                                 IRB approach: supervisory
                                 slotting approach for
                                 specialised lending
                                 This chapter sets out the calculation of risk-
                                 weighted assets and expected losses for
                                 specialised lending exposures subject to the
                                 supervisory slotting approach.


                                Introduction
33.1   This chapter sets out the calculation of risk weighted assets and expected losses
       for specialised lending (SL) exposures subject to the supervisory slotting
       approach. The method for determining the difference between expected losses
       and provisions is set out in CRE35.


Risk weights for specialised lending (PF, OF, CF and IPRE)
33.2   For project finance (PF), object finance (OF), commodities finance (CF) and
       income producing real estate (IPRE) exposures, banks that do not meet the
       requirements for the estimation of probability of default (PD) under the corporate
       internal ratings-based (IRB) approach will be required to map their internal
       grades to five supervisory categories, each of which is associated with a specific
       risk weight. The slotting criteria on which this mapping must be based are
       provided in CRE33.13 for PF exposures, CRE33.15 for OF exposures, CRE33.16 for
       CF exposures and CRE33.14 for IPRE exposures. The risk weights for unexpected
       losses (UL) associated with each supervisory category are:

        Supervisory categories and unexpected loss (UL) risk weights for other SL exposures


            Strong             Good            Satisfactory          Weak              Default

              70%               90%               115%               250%                0%



33.3   Although banks are expected to map their internal ratings to the supervisory
       categories for specialised lending using the slotting criteria, each supervisory
       category broadly corresponds to a range of external credit assessments as
       outlined below.

            Strong              Good           Satisfactory          Weak              Default

         BBB- or better      BB+ or BB          BB- or B+           B to C-        Not applicable



33.4   At national discretion, supervisors may allow banks to assign preferential risk
       weights of 50% to “strong” exposures, and 70% to “good” exposures, provided
       they have a remaining maturity of less than 2.5 years or the supervisor
       determines that banks’ underwriting and other risk characteristics are
       substantially stronger than specified in the slotting criteria for the relevant
       supervisory risk category.




Risk weights for specialised lending (HVCRE)
33.5   For high-volatility commercial real estate (HVCRE) exposures, banks that do not
       meet the requirements for estimation of PD, or whose supervisor has chosen not
       to implement the foundation or advanced approaches to HVCRE, must map their
       internal grades to five supervisory categories, each of which is associated with a
       specific risk weight. The slotting criteria on which this mapping must be based are
       the same as those for IPRE, as provided in CRE33.14. The risk weights associated
       with each supervisory category are:

        Supervisory categories and UL risk weights for high-volatility commercial real estate


             Strong             Good            Satisfactory         Weak               Default

              95%               120%               140%              250%                 0%



33.6   As indicated in CRE33.3, each supervisory category broadly corresponds to a
       range of external credit assessments.

33.7   At national discretion, supervisors may allow banks to assign preferential risk
       weights of 70% to “strong” exposures, and 95% to “good” exposures, provided
       they have a remaining maturity of less than 2.5 years or the supervisor
       determines that banks’ underwriting and other risk characteristics are
       substantially stronger than specified in the slotting criteria for the relevant
       supervisory risk category.


Expected loss for specialised lending (SL) exposures subject to the
supervisory slotting criteria
33.8   For SL exposures subject to the supervisory slotting criteria, the expected loss (EL)
       amount is determined by multiplying 8% by the risk-weighted assets produced
       from the appropriate risk weights, as specified below, multiplied by exposure at
       default.

33.9   The risk weights for SL, other than HVCRE, are as follows:

            Strong              Good            Satisfactory          Weak               Default

              5%                 10%                35%                100%               625%



33.10 Where, at national discretion, supervisors allow banks to assign preferential risk
      weights to non-HVCRE SL exposures falling into the “strong” and “good”
       supervisory categories as outlined in CRE33.4, the corresponding expected loss
       (EL) risk weight is 0% for “strong” exposures, and 5% for “good” exposures.

33.11 The risk weights for HVCRE are as follows:

            Strong           Good           Satisfactory       Weak            Default

              5%               5%              35%             100%             625%



33.12 Even where, at national discretion, supervisors allow banks to assign preferential
      risk weights to HVCRE exposures falling into the “strong” and “good” supervisory
      categories as outlined in CRE33.7, the corresponding EL risk weight will remain at
      5% for both “strong” and “good” exposures.


Supervisory slotting criteria for specialised lending
33.13 The following table sets out the supervisory rating grades for project finance
      exposures subject to the supervisory slotting approach.




                                 Strong                Good             Satisfactory          Weak

     Financial strength

        Market conditions          

Few competing suppliers or substantial and durable advantage in location, cost, or technology. Demand is strong and growing
Few competing suppliers or better than average
location, cost, or technology but this situation may not last. Demand is strong and stable
Project has no advantage in location, cost, or technology. Demand is adequate and stable
Project has worse than average location, cost, or technology. Demand is weak and declining
Financial ratios (eg debt service coverage ratio (DSCR), loan life coverage ratio, project life coverage ratio, and debt-to-equity ratio)
Strong financial ratios considering the level of project risk; very robust economic assumptions
Strong to acceptable financial ratios considering the level of project risk; robust project economic assumptions
Standard financial ratios considering the level of project risk
Aggressive financial ratios considering the level of project risk
Stress analysis
The project can meet its financial obligations under sustained, severely stressed economic or sectoral conditions
The project can meet its financial obligations under normal stressed economic or sectoral conditions. The project is only likely to default under severe economic conditions
The project is vulnerable to stresses that are not uncommon through an economic cycle, and may default in a normal downturn
The project is likely to default unless conditions improve soon


     Financial structure
Duration of the credit compared to the duration of the project
Useful life of the project significantly exceeds tenor of the loan
Useful life of the project exceeds tenor of the loan
Useful life of the project exceeds tenor of the loan
Useful life of the project may not exceed tenor of the loan
Amortisation schedule
Amortising debt
Amortising debt
Amortising debt repayments with limited bullet payment
Bullet repayment or amortising debt repayments with high bullet repayment

Political and legal environment
Political risk, including transfer risk, considering project type and mitigants
Very low exposure; strong mitigation instruments, if needed
Low exposure; satisfactory mitigation instruments, if needed
Moderate exposure; fair mitigation instruments
High exposure; no or weak mitigation instruments

Force majeure risk (war, civil unrest, etc),
Low exposure
Acceptable exposure
Standard protection
Significant risks, not fully mitigated

Government support and project’s importance for the country over the long term
Project of strategic importance for the country (preferably export- oriented). Strong support from Government
Project considered important for the country. Good level of support from Government

Project may not be strategic but brings unquestionable benefits for the country. Support from Government may not be explicit
Project not key to the country. No or weak support from Government

Stability of legal and regulatory environment (risk of change in law)
Favourable and stable regulatory environment over the long term
Favourable and stable regulatory environment over the medium term
Regulatory changes can be predicted with a fair level of certainty

Current or future regulatory issues may affect the project

Acquisition of all necessary supports and approvals for such relief from local content laws
Strong
Satisfactory
Fair 
Weak
Enforceability of contracts, collateral and security

Contracts, collateral and security are enforceable
Contracts, collateral and security are enforceable

Contracts, collateral and security are considered enforceable even  if certain non-key issues may exist

There are unresolved key issues in respect if actual enforcement of contracts, collateral and security

Transaction characteristics
Design and technology risk
Fully proven technology and design
Fully proven technology and design
Proven technology and design — start- up issues are mitigated by a strong completion package
Unproven technology and design; technology issues exist and/or complex design

Construction risk
Permitting and siting
All permits have been obtained
Some permits are still outstanding but their receipt is considered very likely
Some permits are still outstanding but the permitting process is well defined and they are considered routine
Key permits still need to be obtained and are not considered routine. Significant conditions may be attached

Type of construction contract
Fixed-price date- certain turnkey construction engineering and procurement contract (EPC)
Fixed-price date- certain turnkey construction EPC
Fixed-price date-certain turnkey construction contract with one or several contractors
No or partial fixed-price turnkey contract and /or interfacing issues with multiple contractors


Completion guarantees

Substantial liquidated damages supported by financial substance and /or strong completion guarantee from sponsors with excellent financial standing 
Significant liquidated damages supported by financial substance and /or completion guarantee from sponsors with good financial standing
Adequate liquidated damages supported by financial substance and /or completion guarantee from sponsors with good financial standing
Inadequate liquidated damages or not supported by financial substance or weak completion guarantees

Track record and financial strength of contractor in constructing similar projects.
Operating risk
Scope and nature of operations and maintenance (O & M) contracts
Strong long- term O&M contract, preferably with contractual performance incentives, and /or O&M reserve accounts
Long-term O&M contract, and/or O&M reserve accounts
Limited O&M contract or O&M reserve account
No O&M contract: risk of high operational cost overruns beyond mitigants
Operator’s expertise, track record, and financial strength
Very strong, or committed technical assistance of the sponsors
Strong 
Acceptable 
Limited/weak, or local operator dependent on local authorities

Off-take risk 
(a) If there is a take-or-
pay or fixed- price off- take contract:

Excellent creditworthiness of off-taker; strong termination clauses; tenor of contract comfortably exceeds the maturity of the debt
Good creditworthiness of off-taker; strong termination clauses; tenor of contract exceeds the maturity of the debt
Acceptable financial standing of off- taker; normal termination clauses; tenor of contract generally matches the maturity of the debt
Weak off- taker; weak termination clauses; tenor of contract does not exceed the maturity of the debt

(b) If there is no take-
or-pay or fixed- price off- take contract:

Project produces essential services or a commodity sold widely on a world market; output can readily be absorbed at projected prices even at lower than historic market growth rates
Project produces essential services or a commodity sold widely on a regional market that will absorb it at projected prices at historical growth rates
Commodity is sold on a limited market that may absorb it only at lower than projected prices
Project output is demanded by only one or a few buyers or is not generally sold on an organised market

Supply risk 

Price, volume and transportation risk of feed- stocks; supplier’ s track record and financial strength
Long-term supply contract with supplier of excellent financial standing
Long-term supply contract with supplier of good financial standing
Long-term supply contract with supplier of good financial standing — a degree of price risk may remain
Short-term supply contract or long-term supply contract with financially weak supplier — a degree of price risk definitely remains

Reserve risks (e. g. natural resource development)
Independently audited, proven and developed reserves well in excess of requirements over lifetime of the project

Independently audited, proven and developed reserves in excess of requirements over lifetime of the project
Proven reserves can supply the project adequately through the maturity of the debt
Project relies to some extent on potential and undeveloped reserves

Strength of Sponsor 
Sponsor’s track record, financial strength, and country/sector experience
Strong sponsor with excellent track record and high financial standing
Good sponsor with satisfactory track record and good financial standing
Adequate sponsor with adequate track record and good financial standing
Weak sponsor with no or questionable track record and/or financial weaknesses

Sponsor support, as evidenced by equity, ownership clause and incentive to  inject additional cash if necessary
Strong. Project is highly strategic for the sponsor (core business — long-term strategy)
Good. Project is strategic for the sponsor (core business — long-term strategy)
Acceptable. Project is considered important for the sponsor (core business)
Limited. Project is not key to sponsor’s long-term strategy or core business


Security Package 
Assignment of contracts and accounts
Fully comprehensive
Comprehensive 
Acceptable 
Weak 
Pledge of assets, taking into account quality, value and liquidity of assets
First perfected security interest in all project assets, contracts, permits and accounts necessary to run the project
Perfected security interest in all project assets, contracts, permits and accounts necessary to run the project
Acceptable security interest in all project assets, contracts, permits and accounts necessary to run the project
Little security or collateral for lenders; weak negative pledge clause

Lender’s control over cash flow (eg cash sweeps, independent escrow accounts)
Strength of the covenant package (mandatory prepayments, payment deferrals, payment cascade, dividend restrictions...)
Covenant package is strong for this type of project
Project may issue no additional debt
Covenant package is satisfactory for this type of project
Project may issue extremely limited additional debt
Covenant package is fair for this type of project
Project may issue limited additional debt
Covenant package is Insufficient for this type of project
Project may issue unlimited additional debt

Reserve funds (debt service, O&M, renewal and replacement, unforeseen events, etc)

Longer than average coverage period, all reserve funds fully funded in cash or letters of credit from highly rated bank
Average coverage period, all reserve funds fully funded
Average coverage period, all reserve funds fully funded
Shorter than average coverage period, reserve funds funded from operating cash flows

     33.14
        The following table sets out the supervisory rating grades for income producing
        real estate exposures and high-volatility commercial real estate exposures subject
        to the supervisory slotting approach.




                            Strong              Good               Satisfactory             Weak

     Financial strength
Market conditions
The supply and demand for the project’s type and location are currently in equilibrium. The number of competitive properties coming to market is equal or lower than forecasted demand
The supply and demand for the project’s type and location are currently in equilibrium. The number of competitive properties coming to market is roughly equal to forecasted demand
Market conditions are roughly in equilibrium. Competitive properties are coming on the market and others are in the planning stages. The project’s design and capabilities may not be state of the art compared to new projects
Market conditions are weak. It is uncertain when conditions will improve and return to equilibrium. The project is losing tenants at lease expiration. New lease terms are less favourable compared to those expiring


                      Financial ratios and advance rate
The property’s DSCR is considered strong (DSCR is not relevant for the construction phase) and its loan-to-value ratio (LTV) is considered low given its property type. Where a secondary market exists, the transaction is underwritten to market standards
The DSCR (not relevant for development real estate) and LTV are satisfactory. Where a secondary market exists, the transaction is underwritten to market standards
The property’s DSCR has deteriorated and its value has fallen, increasing its LTV
The property’s DSCR has deteriorated significantly and its LTV is well above underwriting standards for new loans
Stress analysis
The property’s resources, contingencies and liability structure allow it to meet its financial obligations during a period of severe financial stress (eg interest rates, economic growth)
The property can meet its financial obligations under a sustained period of financial stress (eg interest rates, economic growth). The property is likely to default only under severe economic conditions
During an economic downturn, the property would suffer a decline in revenue that would limit its ability to fund capital expenditures and significantly increase the risk of default
The property’s financial condition is strained and is likely to default unless conditions improve in the near term
  

     Cash-flow
     predictability


     Asset
     characteristics

     Location        
                                          
Property is located in highly desirable location that is convenient to services that tenants desire
Property is located in desirable location that is convenient to services that tenants desire
The property location lacks a competitive advantage
The property’s location, configuration, design and maintenance have contributed to the property’s difficulties
Design and condition  
Property is favoured due to its design, configuration, and maintenance, and is highly competitive with new properties
Property is appropriate in terms of its design, configuration and maintenance. The property’s design and capabilities are competitive with new properties
Property is adequate in terms of its configuration, design and maintenance
Weaknesses exist in the property’s configuration, design or maintenance

Property is under construction     
Construction budget is conservative and technical hazards are limited. Contractors are highly qualified
Construction budget is conservative and technical hazards are limited. Contractors are highly qualified
Construction budget is adequate and contractors are ordinarily qualified
Project is over budget or unrealistic given its technical hazards. Contractors may be under qualified

     Strength of
     Sponsor
     /Developer

  Financial capacity and willingness to support the property.
The sponsor /developer made a substantial cash contribution to the construction or purchase of the property. The sponsor /developer has substantial resources and limited direct and contingent liabilities. The sponsor /developer’s properties are diversified geographically and by property type
The sponsor /developer made a material cash contribution to the construction or purchase of the property. The sponsor /developer’s financial condition allows it to support the property in the event of a cash flow shortfall. The sponsor /developer’s properties are located in several geographic regions
The sponsor /developer’s contribution may be immaterial or non-cash. The sponsor /developer is average to below average in financial resources
The sponsor /developer lacks capacity or willingness to support the property

Reputation and track record with similar properties.
Experienced management and high sponsors’ quality. Strong reputation and lengthy and successful record with similar properties
Appropriate management and sponsors’ quality. The sponsor or management has a successful record with similar properties 
Moderate management and sponsors’ quality. Management or sponsor track record does not raise serious concerns
Ineffective management and substandard sponsors’ quality. Management and sponsor difficulties have contributed to difficulties in managing properties in the past
Relationships with relevant real estate actors
Strong relationships with leading actors such as leasing agents
Proven relationships with leading actors such as leasing agents
Adequate relationships with leasing agents and other parties providing important real estate services
Poor relationships with leasing agents and/or other parties providing important real estate services
     

   Security
     Package

     Nature of lien   Perfected first lien. Lenders in some markets extensively use loan structures that include junior liens. Junior liens may be indicative of this level of risk if the total LTV inclusive of all senior positions does not exceed a typical first loan LTV.

Perfected first lien. Lenders in some markets extensively use loan structures that include junior liens. Junior liens may be indicative of this level of risk if the total LTV inclusive of all senior positions does not exceed a typical first loan LTV.

Ability of lender to foreclose is constrained

Assignment of rents (for projects leased to long-term tenants)
The lender has obtained an assignment. They maintain current tenant information that would facilitate providing notice to remit rents directly to the lender, such as a current rent roll and copies of the project’s leases
The lender has obtained an assignment. They maintain current tenant information that would facilitate providing notice to the tenants to remit rents directly to the lender, such as current rent roll and copies of the project’s leases
The lender has obtained an assignment. They maintain current tenant information that would facilitate providing notice to the tenants to remit rents directly to the lender, such as current rent roll and copies of the project’s leases
The lender has not obtained an assignment of the leases or has not maintained the information necessary to readily provide notice to the building’s tenants
  
Quality of the insurance coverage
Appropriate
Substandard



33.15 The following table sets out the supervisory rating grades for object finance
      exposures subject to the supervisory slotting approach.


                              Strong              Good             Satisfactory           Weak

     Financial strength
Market conditions
Demand is strong and growing, strong entry barriers, low sensitivity to changes in technology and economic outlook
Demand is strong and stable. Some entry barriers, some sensitivity to changes in technology and economic outlook
Demand is adequate and stable, limited entry barriers, significant sensitivity to changes in technology and economic outlook
Demand is weak and declining, vulnerable to changes in technology and economic outlook, highly uncertain environment
Financial ratios (DSCR and LTV)
Strong financial ratios considering the type of asset. Very robust economic assumptions
Strong / acceptable financial ratios considering the type of asset. Robust project economic assumptions
Standard financial ratios for the asset type
Aggressive financial ratios considering the type of asset


Stress analysis
Stable long-term revenues, capable of withstanding severely stressed conditions through an economic cycle
Satisfactory short-term revenues. Loan can withstand some financial adversity. Default is only likely under severe economic conditions
Uncertain short- term revenues. Cash flows are vulnerable to stresses that are not uncommon through an economic cycle. The loan may default in a normal downturn
Revenues subject to strong uncertainties; even in normal economic conditions the asset may default, unless conditions improve

Market liquidity
Market is structured on a worldwide basis; assets are highly liquid
Market is worldwide or regional; assets are relatively liquid
Market is regional with limited prospects in the short term, implying lower liquidity
Local market and/or poor visibility. Low or no liquidity, particularly on niche markets


      
     Political and
     legal
     environment

          Political risk, including transfer risk
Legal and regulatory risks
                Very low; strong mitigation instruments, if needed jurisdiction is favourable to repossession and enforcement of contracts

Low; satisfactory mitigation instruments, if needed
Jurisdiction is favourable to repossession and enforcement of contracts
Moderate; fair mitigation instruments
Jurisdiction is generally favourable to repossession and enforcement of contracts, even if repossession might be long and/or difficult
High; no or weak mitigation instruments
Poor or unstable legal and regulatory environment. Jurisdiction may make repossession and enforcement of contracts lengthy or impossible



     Transaction
     characteristics

      Financing term compared to the economic life of the asset
Full payout profile /minimum balloon. No grace period
Balloon more significant, but still at satisfactory levels
Important balloon with potentially grace periods
Repayment in fine or high balloon

     Operating risk

        Permits /  licensing     
All permits have been obtained; asset meets current and foreseeable safety regulations
All permits obtained or in the process of being obtained; asset meets current and foreseeable safety regulations
Most permits obtained or in process of being obtained, outstanding ones considered routine, asset meets current safety regulations
Problems in obtaining all required permits, part of the planned configuration and/or planned operations might need to be revised


Scope and nature of O & M contracts
Strong long-term O&M contract, preferably with contractual performance incentives, and /or O&M reserve accounts (if needed)
Long-term O&M contract, and/or O&M reserve accounts (if needed)
Limited O&M contract or O&M reserve account (if needed)
No O&M contract: risk of high operational cost overruns beyond mitigants
Operator’s financial strength, track record in managing the asset type and capability to re- market asset when it comes off-lease
Excellent track record and strong re-marketing capability
Satisfactory track record and re-marketing capability
Weak or short track record and uncertain re- marketing capability
No or unknown track record and inability to remarket the asset



     Asset
     characteristics

Configuration, size, design and maintenance (ie age, size for a plane) compared to other assets on the same market
Resale value
Sensitivity of the asset value and liquidity to economic cycles
Strong advantage in design and maintenance. Configuration is standard such that the object meets a liquid market
Current resale value is well above debt value
Asset value and liquidity are relatively insensitive to economic cycles
Above average design and maintenance. Standard configuration, maybe with very limited exceptions — such that the object meets a liquid market
Resale value is moderately above debt value
Asset value and liquidity are sensitive to economic cycles
Average design and maintenance. Configuration is somewhat specific, and thus might cause a narrower market for the object
Resale value is slightly above debt value
Asset value and liquidity are quite sensitive to economic cycles
Below average design and maintenance. Asset is near the end of its economic life. Configuration is very specific; the market for the object is very narrow
Resale value is below debt value
Asset value and liquidity are highly sensitive to economic cycles
 

     Strength of sponsor
 
Operator’s financial strength, track record in managing the asset type and capability to re-market asset when it comes off-lease
Sponsors’ track record and financial strength
Excellent track
record and
strong re-marketing capability 
Sponsors with excellent track record and high financial standing
Satisfactory track record and re-marketing capability 
Sponsors with good track record and good financial standing
Weak or short track record and uncertain re- marketing capability
Sponsors with adequate track record and good financial standing
No or unknown track record and inability to re- market the asset
Sponsors with no or questionable track record and/or financial weaknesses

Security Package

       Asset control  Rights and means at the lender's disposal to monitor the location and condition of the asset
Insurance against damages
Legal documentation provides the lender effective control (e.g. a first perfected security interest, or a leasing structure including such security) on the asset, or on the company owning it
The lender is able to monitor the location and condition of the asset, at any time and place (regular reports, possibility to lead inspections)
Strong insurance coverage including collateral damages with top quality insurance companies
Legal documentation provides the lender effective control (e.g. a perfected security interest, or a leasing structure including such security) on the asset, or on the company owning it
The lender is able to monitor the location and condition of the asset, almost at any time and place
Satisfactory insurance coverage (not including collateral damages) with good quality insurance companies
Legal documentation provides the lender effective control (e.g. a perfected security interest, or a leasing structure including such security) on the asset, or on the company owning it
The lender is able to monitor the location and condition of the asset, almost at any time and place
Fair insurance coverage (not including collateral damages) with acceptable quality insurance companies
The contract provides little security to the lender and leaves room to some risk of losing control on the asset
The lender is able to monitor the location and condition of the asset are limited
Weak insurance coverage (not including collateral damages) or with weak quality insurance companies
  

33.16 The following table sets out the supervisory rating grades for commodities
      finance exposures subject to the supervisory slotting approach.




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                            305/1626
                                Strong             Good            Satisfactory          Weak

     Financial strength
Degree of over-collateralisation of trade


     Political and legal
     environment

        Country risk        No country risk    
Limited exposure to country risk (in particular, offshore location of reserves in an emerging country)
Exposure to country risk (in particular, offshore location of reserves in an emerging country)
Strong exposure to country risk (in particular, inland reserves in an emerging country)

Mitigation of country risks
Very strong mitigation:
Strong offshore mechanisms Strategic commodity
1st class buyer

Strong mitigation:
Offshore mechanisms
Strategic commodity Strong buyer

Acceptable mitigation:
Offshore mechanisms
Less strategic commodity Acceptable buyer

Only partial mitigation:
No offshore mechanisms
Non-strategic commodity Weak buyer


     Asset
     characteristics
Liquidity and susceptibility to damage
Commodity is quoted and can be hedged through futures or over-the- counter (OTC) instruments. Commodity is not susceptible to damage
Commodity is quoted and can be hedged through OTC instruments. Commodity is not susceptible to damage
Commodity is not quoted but is liquid. There is uncertainty about the possibility of hedging. Commodity is not susceptible to damage
Commodity is not quoted. Liquidity is limited given the size and depth of the market. No appropriate hedging instruments. Commodity is susceptible to damage

     Strength of
     sponsor


Financial strength of trader
Track record, including ability to manage the logistic process
Trading controls and hedging policies
Quality of financial disclosure

Very strong, relative to trading philosophy and risks
Extensive experience with the type of transaction in question. Strong record of operating success and cost efficiency
Strong standards for counterparty selection, hedging, and monitoring
Excellent

Strong
Sufficient experience with the type of transaction in question. Above average record of operating success and cost efficiency
Adequate standards for counterparty selection, hedging, and monitoring
Good

Adequate
Limited experience with the type of transaction in question. Average record of operating success and cost efficiency
Past deals have experienced no or minor problems
Satisfactory

Weak
Limited or uncertain track record in general. Volatile costs and profits
Trader has experienced significant losses on past deals
Financial disclosure contains some uncertainties or is insufficient


     Security package

       Asset control       

First perfected security interest provides the lender legal control of the assets at any time if needed
First perfected security interest provides the lender legal control of the assets at any time if needed
At some point in the process, there is a rupture in the control of the assets by the lender. The rupture is mitigated by knowledge of the trade process or a third party undertaking as the case may be
Contract leaves room for some risk of losing control over the assets. Recovery could be jeopardised

        Insurance against damages


Strong insurance coverage including collateral damages with top quality insurance companies
Satisfactory insurance coverage (not including collateral damages) with good quality insurance companies
Fair insurance coverage (not including collateral damages) with acceptable quality insurance companies
Weak insurance coverage (not including collateral damages) or with weak quality insurance companies




                                 CRE34
                                 IRB approach: RWA for
                                 purchased receivables
                                 This chapter sets out the calculation of risk-
                                 weighted under the internal ratings-based
                                 approach for purchased receivables.


                               
Introduction
34.1   This chapter presents the method of calculating the unexpected loss (UL) capital
       requirements for purchased receivables. For such assets, there are internal ratings-
       based (IRB) capital charges for both default risk and dilution risk.


Risk-weighted assets for default risk
34.2   For receivables belonging unambiguously to one asset class, the IRB risk weight
       for default risk is based on the risk-weight function applicable to that particular
       exposure type, as long as the bank can meet the qualification standards for this
       particular risk-weight function. For example, if banks cannot comply with the
       standards for qualifying revolving retail exposures (defined in CRE30.24), they
       should use the risk-weight function for other retail exposures. For hybrid pools
       containing mixtures of exposure types, if the purchasing bank cannot separate
       the exposures by type, the risk-weight function producing the highest capital
       requirements for the exposure types in the receivable pool applies.

34.3   For purchased retail receivables, a bank must meet the risk quantification
       standards for retail exposures but can utilise external and internal reference data
       to estimate the probabilities of default (PDs) and losses-given-default (LGDs). The
       estimates for PD and LGD (or expected loss, EL) must be calculated for the
       receivables on a stand-alone basis; that is, without regard to any assumption of
       recourse or guarantees from the seller or other parties.

34.4   For purchased corporate receivables the purchasing bank is expected to apply
       the existing IRB risk quantification standards for the bottom-up approach.
       However, for eligible purchased corporate receivables, and subject to supervisory
       permission, a bank may employ the following top-down procedure for calculating
       IRB risk weights for default risk:

       (1) The purchasing bank will estimate the pool’s one-year EL for default risk,
           expressed in percentage of the exposure amount (ie the total exposure at
           default, or EAD, amount to the bank by all obligors in the receivables pool).
           The estimated EL must be calculated for the receivables on a stand-alone
           basis; that is, without regard to any assumption of recourse or guarantees
           from the seller or other parties. The treatment of recourse or guarantees
           covering default risk (and/or dilution risk) is discussed separately below.




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                             310/1626
       (2) Given the EL estimate for the pool’s default losses, the risk weight for default
           risk is determined by the risk-weight function for corporate exposures. As
           described below, the precise calculation of risk weights for default risk
           depends on the bank’s ability to decompose EL into its PD and LGD
           components in a reliable manner. Banks can utilise external and internal data
           to estimate PDs and LGDs. However, the advanced approach will not be
           available for banks that use the foundation approach for corporate
           exposures.


The firm-size adjustment for small or medium-sized entities (SMEs), as
                   defined in CRE31.9, will be the weighted average by individual
                   exposure of the pool of purchased corporate receivables. If the bank
                   does not have the information to calculate the average size of the pool,
                   the firm-size adjustment will not apply.



Foundation IRB treatment

34.5   The risk weight under the foundation IRB treatment is determined as follows:




      (1) If the purchasing bank is unable to decompose EL into its PD and LGD
          components in a reliable manner, the risk weight is determined from the
          corporate risk-weight function using the following specifications:

          (a) If the bank can demonstrate that the exposures are exclusively senior
              claims to corporate borrowers:

               (i)    An LGD of 45% can be used.

               (ii)   PD will be calculated by dividing the EL using this LGD.

               (iii) EAD will be calculated as the outstanding amount minus the
                     capital charge for dilution prior to credit risk mitigation (KDilution).

               (iv) EAD for a revolving purchase facility is the sum of the current
                    amount of receivables purchased plus 75% of any undrawn
                    purchase commitments minus KDilution.

          (b) If the bank cannot demonstrate that the exposures are exclusively senior
              claims to corporate borrowers:

               (i)    PD is the bank’s estimate of EL.


               (ii)   LGD will be 100%.

               (iii) EAD is the amount outstanding minus KDilution.

               (iv) EAD for a revolving purchase facility is the sum of the current
                    amount of receivables purchased plus 75% of any undrawn
                    purchase commitments minus KDilution.

      (2) If the purchasing bank is able to estimate PD in a reliable manner, the risk
          weight is determined from the corporate risk-weight functions according to
          the specifications for LGD, maturity (M) and the treatment of guarantees
          under the foundation approach as given in CRE32.5 to CRE32.15, CRE32.18,
          CRE32.19 to CRE32.24 and CRE32.39.


Advanced IRB treatment




34.6   Under the advanced IRB approach, if the purchasing bank can estimate either the
       pool’s default-weighted average loss rates given default (as defined in CRE36.85)
       or average PD in a reliable manner, the bank may estimate the other parameter
       based on an estimate of the expected long-run loss rate. The bank may (i) use an
       appropriate PD estimate to infer the long-run default-weighted average loss rate
       given default, or (ii) use a long-run default-weighted average loss rate given
       default to infer the appropriate PD. In either case, it is important to recognise that
       the LGD used for the IRB capital calculation for purchased receivables cannot be
       less than the long-run default-weighted average loss rate given default and must
       be consistent with the concepts defined in CRE36.85. The risk weight for the
       purchased receivables will be determined using the bank’s estimated PD and LGD
       as inputs to the corporate risk-weight function. Similar to the foundation IRB
       treatment, EAD will be the amount outstanding minus KDilution. EAD for a
       revolving purchase facility will be the sum of the current amount of receivables
       purchased plus 75% of any undrawn purchase commitments minus KDilution (thus,
       banks using the advanced IRB approach will not be permitted to use their internal
       EAD estimates for undrawn purchase commitments).

34.7   For drawn amounts, M will equal the pool’s exposure-weighted average effective
       maturity (as defined in CRE32.41 to CRE32.49). This same value of M will also be
       used for undrawn amounts under a committed purchase facility provided the
       facility contains effective covenants, early amortisation triggers, or other features
       that protect the purchasing bank against a significant deterioration in the quality
       of the future receivables it is required to purchase over the facility’s term. Absent
       such effective protections, the M for undrawn amounts will be calculated as the
       sum of (a) the longest-dated potential receivable under the purchase agreement
       and (b) the remaining maturity of the purchase facility.


Risk-weighted assets for dilution risk
34.8   Dilution refers to the possibility that the receivable amount is reduced through
       cash or non-cash credits to the receivable’s obligor. For both corporate and
       retail receivables, unless the bank can demonstrate to its supervisor that the
       dilution risk for the purchasing bank is immaterial, the treatment of dilution risk
       must be the following:




       (1) At the level of either the pool as a whole (top-down approach) or the
           individual receivables making up the pool (bottom-up approach), the
           purchasing bank will estimate the one-year EL for dilution risk, also
           expressed in percentage of the receivables amount. Banks can utilise external
           and internal data to estimate EL. As with the treatments of default risk, this
           estimate must be computed on a stand-alone basis; that is, under the
           assumption of no recourse or other support from the seller or third-party
           guarantors.

       (2) For the purpose of calculating risk weights for dilution risk, the corporate
           risk-weight function must be used with the following settings:

           (a) The PD must be set equal to the estimated EL.

           (b) The LGD must be set at 100%.

           (c)   An appropriate maturity treatment applies when determining the capital
                 requirement for dilution risk. If a bank can demonstrate that the dilution
                 risk is appropriately monitored and managed to be resolved within one
                 year, the supervisor may allow the bank to apply a one-year maturity.

Examples include offsets or allowances arising from returns of goods
                   sold, disputes regarding product quality, possible debts of the borrower
                   to a receivables obligor, and any payment or promotional discounts
                   offered by the borrower (eg a credit for cash payments within 30 days).


34.9   This treatment will be applied regardless of whether the underlying receivables
       are corporate or retail exposures, and regardless of whether the risk weights for
       default risk are computed using the standard IRB treatments or, for corporate
       receivables, the top-down treatment described above.




Treatment of purchase price discounts for receivables
34.10 In many cases, the purchase price of receivables will reflect a discount (not to be
      confused with the discount concept defined in CRE32.29 and CRE32.55) that
      provides first loss protection for default losses, dilution losses or both. To the
      extent that a portion of such a purchase price discount may be refunded to the
      seller based on the performance of the receivables, the purchaser may recognise
      this refundable amount as first loss protection and hence treat this exposure
      under the securitisation chapters of credit risk standard (CRE40 to CRE44), while
      the seller providing such a refundable purchase price discount must treat the
      refundable amount as a first-loss position under the securitisation framework.
      Non-refundable purchase price discounts for receivables do not affect either the
      EL-provision calculation in CRE35 or the calculation of risk-weighted assets.

34.11 When collateral or partial guarantees obtained on receivables provide first loss
      protection (collectively referred to as mitigants in this paragraph), and these
      mitigants cover default losses, dilution losses, or both, they may also be treated
      as first loss protection under the securitisation framework (CRE44.11). When the
      same mitigant covers both default and dilution risk, banks using the
      Securitisation Internal Ratings-Based Approach (SEC-IRBA) that are able to
      calculate an exposure-weighted LGD must do so as defined in CRE44.22.


Recognition of credit risk mitigants
34.12 Credit risk mitigants will be recognised generally using the same type of
      framework as set forth in CRE32.19 to CRE32.26. In particular, a guarantee
      provided by the seller or a third party will be treated using the existing IRB rules
      for guarantees, regardless of whether the guarantee covers default risk, dilution
      risk, or both.

       (1) If the guarantee covers both the pool’s default risk and dilution risk, the bank
           will substitute the risk weight for an exposure to the guarantor in place of
           the pool’s total risk weight for default and dilution risk.

       (2) If the guarantee covers only default risk or dilution risk, but not both, the
           bank will substitute the risk weight for an exposure to the guarantor in place
           of the pool’s risk weight for the corresponding risk component (default or
           dilution). The capital requirement for the other component will then be
           added.




       (3) If a guarantee covers only a portion of the default and/or dilution risk, the
           uncovered portion of the default and/or dilution risk will be treated as per



           the existing credit risk mitigation rules for proportional or tranched coverage
           (ie the risk weights of the uncovered risk components will be added to the
           risk weights of the covered risk components).

 At national supervisory discretion, banks may recognise guarantors
                   that are internally rated and associated with a PD equivalent to less
                   than A- under the foundation IRB approach for purposes of
                   determining capital requirements for dilution risk.


34.13 If protection against dilution risk has been purchased, and the conditions of
      CRE32.27 and CRE32.28 are met, the double default framework may be used for
      the calculation of the risk-weighted asset amount for dilution risk. In this case,
      CRE31.14 to CRE31.17 apply with PDo being equal to the estimated EL, LGDg
       being equal to 100 percent, and effective maturity being set according to CRE34.8.




                                 CRE35
                                 IRB approach: treatment of
                                 expected losses and
                                 provisions
                                 This chapter sets out the treatment of expected
                                 losses and provisions within the internal ratings-
                                 based approach.

Introduction
35.1   This chapter discusses the calculation of expected losses (EL) under the internal
       ratings-based (IRB) approach, and the method by which the difference between
       provisions (eg specific provisions, partial write-offs, portfolio-specific general
       provisions such as country risk provisions or general provisions) and EL may be
       included in or must be deducted from regulatory capital, as outlined in the
       definition of capital standard CAP10.19 and CAP30.13. The treatment of EL and
       provisions related to securitisation exposures is outlined in CRE40.36.


Calculation of expected losses
35.2   A bank must sum the EL amount (defined as EL multiplied by EAD) associated
       with its exposures (excluding the EL amount associated with equity exposures
       under the probability of default / loss-given-default (PD/LGD) approach and
       securitisation exposures) to obtain a total EL amount. While the EL amount
       associated with equity exposures subject to the PD/LGD approach is excluded
       from the total EL amount, CRE35.3 and CRE35.10 apply to such exposures.

35.3   Banks must calculate an EL as PD x LGD for corporate, sovereign, bank, and retail
       exposures both not in default and not treated as hedged exposures under the
       double default treatment. For corporate, sovereign, bank, and retail exposures
       that are in default, banks must use their best estimate of expected loss as defined
       in CRE36.88 and banks on the foundation approach must use the supervisory
       LGD. For specialised lending exposures subject to the supervisory slotting criteria
       EL is calculated as described in paragraphs CRE33.8 to CRE33.12. For equity
       exposures subject to the PD/LGD approach, the EL is calculated as PD x LGD
       unless CRE31.38 to CRE31.41 apply. Securitisation exposures do not contribute to
       the EL amount, as set out in CRE40.36. For all other exposures, including hedged
       exposures under the double default treatment, the EL is zero.


Calculation of provisions

Exposures subject to the IRB approach for credit risk

35.4   Total eligible provisions are defined as the sum of all provisions (eg specific
       provisions, partial write-offs, portfolio-specific general provisions such as country
       risk provisions or general provisions) that are attributed to exposures treated
       under the IRB approach. In addition, total eligible provisions may include any
       discounts on defaulted assets. Specific provisions set aside against equity and
       securitisation exposures must not be included in total eligible provisions.




Portion of exposures subject to the standardised approach for credit risk

35.5   Banks using the standardised approach for a portion of their credit risk
       exposures, either on a transitional basis (as defined in CRE30.47 and CRE30.48), or
       on a permanent basis if the exposures subject to the standardised approach are
       immaterial (CRE30.49), must determine the portion of general provisions
       attributed to the standardised or IRB treatment of provisions according to the
       methods outlined in CRE35.6 and CRE35.7 below.

35.6   Banks should generally attribute total general provisions on a pro rata basis
       according to the proportion of credit risk-weighted assets subject to the
       standardised and IRB approaches. However, when one approach to determining
       credit risk-weighted assets (ie standardised or IRB approach) is used exclusively
       within an entity, general provisions booked within the entity using the
       standardised approach may be attributed to the standardised treatment.
       Similarly, general provisions booked within entities using the IRB approach may
       be attributed to the total eligible provisions as defined in CRE35.4.

35.7   At national supervisory discretion, banks using both the standardised and IRB
       approaches may rely on their internal methods for allocating general provisions
       for recognition in capital under either the standardised or IRB approach, subject
       to the following conditions. Where the internal allocation method is made
       available, the national supervisor will establish the standards surrounding their
       use. Banks will need to obtain prior approval from their supervisors to use an
       internal allocation method for this purpose.


Treatment of EL and provisions
35.8   As specified in CAP10.19 and CAP30.13, banks using the IRB approach must
       compare the total amount of total eligible provisions (as defined in CRE35.4) with
       the total EL amount as calculated within the IRB approach (as defined in CRE35.2).
       In addition, CAP10.18 outlines the treatment for that portion of a bank that is
       subject to the standardised approach to credit risk when the bank uses both the
       standardised and IRB approaches.

35.9   Where the calculated EL amount is lower than the provisions of the bank, its
       supervisors must consider whether the EL fully reflects the conditions in the
       market in which it operates before allowing the difference to be included in Tier 2
       capital. If specific provisions exceed the EL amount on defaulted assets this
       assessment also needs to be made before using the difference to offset the EL
       amount on non-defaulted assets.




35.10 The EL amount for equity exposures under the PD/LGD approach is risk-weighted
      at 1250%. Provisions or write-offs for equity exposures under the PD/LGD
      approach will not be used in the EL-provision calculation. The treatment of EL and
      provisions related to securitisation exposures is outlined in CRE40.36.




                                 CRE36
                                 IRB approach: minimum
                                 requirements to use IRB
                                 approach
                                 This chapter sets out the minimum requirements
                                 for banks to use the internal ratings-based
                                 approach, including requirements for initial
                                 adoption and for ongoing use.


                                
Introduction
36.1   This chapter presents the minimum requirements for entry and on-going use of
       the internal ratings-based (IRB) approach. The minimum requirements are set out
       in the following 12 sections:

       (1) Composition of minimum requirements

       (2) Compliance with minimum requirements

       (3) Rating system design

       (4) Risk rating system operations

       (5) Corporate governance and oversight

       (6) Use of internal ratings

       (7) Risk quantification

       (8) Validation of internal estimates

       (9) Supervisory loss-given-default (LGD) and exposure at default (EAD) estimates

       (10) Requirements for recognition of leasing

       (11) Calculation of capital charges for equity exposures

       (12) Disclosure requirements.

36.2   The minimum requirements in the sections that follow cut across asset classes.
       Therefore, more than one asset class may be discussed within the context of a
       given minimum requirement.


Section 1: composition of minimum requirements
36.3   To be eligible for the IRB approach a bank must demonstrate to its supervisor
       that it meets certain minimum requirements at the outset and on an ongoing
       basis. Many of these requirements are in the form of objectives that a qualifying
       bank’s risk rating systems must fulfil. The focus is on banks’ abilities to rank order
       and quantify risk in a consistent, reliable and valid fashion.




36.4   The overarching principle behind these requirements is that rating and risk
       estimation systems and processes provide for a meaningful assessment of
       borrower and transaction characteristics; a meaningful differentiation of risk; and
       reasonably accurate and consistent quantitative estimates of risk. Furthermore,

       the systems and processes must be consistent with internal use of these
       estimates. The Committee recognises that differences in markets, rating
       methodologies, banking products, and practices require banks and supervisors to
       customise their operational procedures. It is not the Committee’s intention to
       dictate the form or operational detail of banks’ risk management policies and
       practices. Each supervisor will develop detailed review procedures to ensure that
       banks’ systems and controls are adequate to serve as the basis for the IRB
       approach.

36.5   The minimum requirements set out in this chapter apply to all asset classes
       unless noted otherwise. The standards related to the process of assigning
       exposures to borrower or facility grades (and the related oversight, validation,
       etc.) apply equally to the process of assigning retail exposures to pools of
       homogenous exposures, unless noted otherwise.

36.6   The minimum requirements set out in this chapter apply to both foundation and
       advanced approaches unless noted otherwise. Generally, all IRB banks must
       produce their own estimates of probability of default (PD) and must adhere to
       the overall requirements for rating system design, operations, controls, and
       corporate governance, as well as the requisite requirements for estimation and
       validation of PD measures. Banks wishing to use their own estimates of LGD and
       EAD must also meet the incremental minimum requirements for these risk factors
       included in CRE36.85 to CRE36.107.


       Banks are not required to produce their own estimates of PD for
                   certain equity exposures and certain exposures that fall within the
                   specialised lending (SL) sub-class.



Section 2: compliance with minimum requirements
36.7   To be eligible for an IRB approach, a bank must demonstrate to its supervisor
       that it meets the IRB requirements in this document, at the outset and on an
       ongoing basis. Banks’ overall credit risk management practices must also be
       consistent with the evolving sound practice guidelines issued by the Committee
       and national supervisors.




36.8
       There may be circumstances when a bank is not in complete compliance with all
       the minimum requirements. Where this is the case, the bank must produce a plan
       for a timely return to compliance, and seek approval from its supervisor, or the
       bank must demonstrate that the effect of such non-compliance is immaterial in
       terms of the risk posed to the institution. Failure to produce an acceptable plan
       or satisfactorily implement the plan or to demonstrate immateriality will lead
       supervisors to reconsider the bank’s eligibility for the IRB approach. Furthermore,
       for the duration of any non-compliance, supervisors will consider the need for the
       bank to hold additional capital under the supervisory review process (SRP) or take
       other appropriate supervisory action.


Section 3: rating system design
36.9   The term “rating system” comprises all of the methods, processes, controls, and
       data collection and IT systems that support the assessment of credit risk, the
       assignment of internal risk ratings, and the quantification of default and loss
       estimates.

36.10 Within each asset class, a bank may utilise multiple rating methodologies
      /systems. For example, a bank may have customised rating systems for specific
      industries or market segments (eg middle market, and large corporate). If a bank
      chooses to use multiple systems, the rationale for assigning a borrower to a
      rating system must be documented and applied in a manner that best reflects the
      level of risk of the borrower. Banks must not allocate borrowers across rating
      systems inappropriately to minimise regulatory capital requirements (ie cherry-
      picking by choice of rating system). Banks must demonstrate that each system
      used for IRB purposes is in compliance with the minimum requirements at the
      outset and on an ongoing basis.


Rating dimensions : standards for corporate, sovereign, and bank exposures

36.11 A qualifying IRB rating system must have two separate and distinct dimensions:

       (1) the risk of borrower default, and

       (2) transaction-specific factors.




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                           324/1626
36.12 The first dimension must be oriented to the risk of borrower default. Separate
      exposures to the same borrower must be assigned to the same borrower grade,
      irrespective of any differences in the nature of each specific transaction. There are
      two exceptions to this. Firstly, in the case of country transfer risk, where a bank
      may assign different borrower grades depending on whether the facility is
      denominated in local or foreign currency. Secondly, when the treatment of
       associated guarantees to a facility may be reflected in an adjusted borrower
       grade. In either case, separate exposures may result in multiple grades for the
       same borrower. A bank must articulate in its credit policy the relationship
       between borrower grades in terms of the level of risk each grade implies.
       Perceived and measured risk must increase as credit quality declines from one
       grade to the next. The policy must articulate the risk of each grade in terms of
       both a description of the probability of default risk typical for borrowers assigned
       the grade and the criteria used to distinguish that level of credit risk.

36.13 The second dimension must reflect transaction-specific factors, such as collateral,
      seniority, product type, etc. For foundation IRB banks, this requirement can be
      fulfilled by the existence of a facility dimension, which reflects both borrower and
      transaction-specific factors. For example, a rating dimension that reflects
      expected loss (EL) by incorporating both borrower strength (PD) and loss severity
      (LGD) considerations would qualify. Likewise a rating system that exclusively
      reflects LGD would qualify. Where a rating dimension reflects EL and does not
      separately quantify LGD, the supervisory estimates of LGD must be used.

36.14 For banks using the advanced approach, facility ratings must reflect exclusively
      LGD. These ratings can reflect any and all factors that can influence LGD
      including, but not limited to, the type of collateral, product, industry, and
      purpose. Borrower characteristics may be included as LGD rating criteria only to
      the extent they are predictive of LGD. Banks may alter the factors that influence
      facility grades across segments of the portfolio as long as they can satisfy their
      supervisor that it improves the relevance and precision of their estimates.

36.15 Banks using the supervisory slotting criteria for the SL sub-class are exempt from
      this two-dimensional requirement for these exposures. Given the
      interdependence between borrower/transaction characteristics in SL, banks may
      satisfy the requirements under this heading through a single rating dimension
      that reflects EL by incorporating both borrower strength (PD) and loss severity
      (LGD) considerations. This exemption does not apply to banks using either the
      general corporate foundation or advanced approach for the SL sub-class.


Rating dimensions: standards for retail exposures




36.16 Rating systems for retail exposures must be oriented to both borrower and
      transaction risk, and must capture all relevant borrower and transaction

       characteristics. Banks must assign each exposure that falls within the definition of
       retail for IRB purposes into a particular pool. Banks must demonstrate that this
       process provides for a meaningful differentiation of risk, provides for a grouping
       of sufficiently homogenous exposures, and allows for accurate and consistent
       estimation of loss characteristics at pool level.

36.17 For each pool, banks must estimate PD, LGD, and EAD. Multiple pools may share
      identical PD, LGD and EAD estimates. At a minimum, banks should consider the
      following risk drivers when assigning exposures to a pool:

       (1) Borrower risk characteristics (eg borrower type, demographics such as age
           /occupation).

       (2) Transaction risk characteristics, including product and/or collateral types (eg
           loan to value measures, seasoning, guarantees; and seniority (first vs. second
           lien)). Banks must explicitly address crosscollateral provisions where present.

       (3) Delinquency of exposure: Banks are expected to separately identify
           exposures that are delinquent and those that are not.


Rating structure : standards for corporate, sovereign, and bank exposures

36.18 A bank must have a meaningful distribution of exposures across grades with no
      excessive concentrations, on both its borrower-rating and its facility-rating scales.

36.19 To meet this objective, a bank must have a minimum of seven borrower grades
      for non-defaulted borrowers and one for those that have defaulted. Banks with
      lending activities focused on a particular market segment may satisfy this
      requirement with the minimum number of grades.

36.20 A borrower grade is defined as an assessment of borrower risk on the basis of a
      specified and distinct set of rating criteria, from which estimates of PD are
      derived. The grade definition must include both a description of the degree of
      default risk typical for borrowers assigned the grade and the criteria used to
      distinguish that level of credit risk. Furthermore, “+” or “-” modifiers to alpha or
      numeric grades will only qualify as distinct grades if the bank has developed
      complete rating descriptions and criteria for their assignment, and separately
      quantifies PDs for these modified grades.




36.21 Banks with loan portfolios concentrated in a particular market segment and range
      of default risk must have enough grades within that range to avoid undue
      concentrations of borrowers in particular grades. Significant concentrations
      within a single grade or grades must be supported by convincing empirical
       evidence that the grade or grades cover reasonably narrow PD bands and that
       the default risk posed by all borrowers in a grade fall within that band.

36.22 There is no specific minimum number of facility grades for banks using the
      advanced approach for estimating LGD. A bank must have a sufficient number of
      facility grades to avoid grouping facilities with widely varying LGDs into a single
      grade. The criteria used to define facility grades must be grounded in empirical
      evidence.

36.23 Banks using the supervisory slotting criteria for the SL asset classes must have at
      least four grades for non-defaulted borrowers, and one for defaulted borrowers.
      The requirements for SL exposures that qualify for the corporate foundation and
      advanced approaches are the same as those for general corporate exposures.


Rating structure: standards for retail exposures

36.24 For each pool identified, the bank must be able to provide quantitative measures
      of loss characteristics (PD, LGD, and EAD) for that pool. The level of differentiation
      for IRB purposes must ensure that the number of exposures in a given pool is
      sufficient so as to allow for meaningful quantification and validation of the loss
      characteristics at the pool level. There must be a meaningful distribution of
      borrowers and exposures across pools. A single pool must not include an undue
      concentration of the bank’s total retail exposure.


Rating criteria

36.25 A bank must have specific rating definitions, processes and criteria for assigning
      exposures to grades within a rating system. The rating definitions and criteria
      must be both plausible and intuitive and must result in a meaningful
      differentiation of risk.

       (1) The grade descriptions and criteria must be sufficiently detailed to allow
           those charged with assigning ratings to consistently assign the same grade
           to borrowers or facilities posing similar risk. This consistency should exist
           across lines of business, departments and geographic locations. If rating
           criteria and procedures differ for different types of borrowers or facilities, the
           bank must monitor for possible inconsistency, and must alter rating criteria
           to improve consistency when appropriate.




       (2) Written rating definitions must be clear and detailed enough to allow third
           parties to understand the assignment of ratings, such as internal audit or an
           equally independent function and supervisors, to replicate rating
           assignments and evaluate the appropriateness of the grade/pool
           assignments.

       (3) The criteria must also be consistent with the bank’s internal lending
           standards and its policies for handling troubled borrowers and facilities.

36.26 To ensure that banks are consistently taking into account available information,
      they must use all relevant and material information in assigning ratings to
      borrowers and facilities. Information must be current. The less information a bank
      has, the more conservative must be its assignments of exposures to borrower and
      facility grades or pools. An external rating can be the primary factor determining
      an internal rating assignment; however, the bank must ensure that it considers
      other relevant information.


Rating criteria: exposures subject to the supervisory slotting approach

36.27 Banks using the supervisory slotting criteria for SL exposures must assign
      exposures to their internal rating grades based on their own criteria, systems and
      processes, subject to compliance with the requisite minimum requirements.
      Banks must then map these internal rating grades into the five supervisory rating
      categories. The slotting criteria tables in the supervisory slotting approach
      chapter (CRE33) provide, for each sub-class of SL exposures, the general
      assessment factors and characteristics exhibited by the exposures that fall under
      each of the supervisory categories. Each lending activity has a unique table
      describing the assessment factors and characteristics.

36.28 The Committee recognises that the criteria that banks use to assign exposures to
      internal grades will not perfectly align with criteria that define the supervisory
      categories; however, banks must demonstrate that their mapping process has
      resulted in an alignment of grades which is consistent with the preponderance of
      the characteristics in the respective supervisory category. Banks should take
      special care to ensure that any overrides of their internal criteria do not render
      the mapping process ineffective.


Rating assignment horizon

36.29 Although the time horizon used in PD estimation is one year (as described in
      CRE36.64), banks are expected to use a longer time horizon in assigning ratings.




36.30
        A borrower rating must represent the bank’s assessment of the borrower’s ability
        and willingness to contractually perform despite adverse economic conditions or
        the occurrence of unexpected events. For example, a bank may base rating
        assignments on specific, appropriate stress scenarios. Alternatively, a bank may
        take into account borrower characteristics that are reflective of the borrower’s
        vulnerability to adverse economic conditions or unexpected events, without
        explicitly specifying a stress scenario. The range of economic conditions that are
        considered when making assessments must be consistent with current conditions
        and those that are likely to occur over a business cycle within the respective
        industry/geographic region.

36.31 PD estimates for borrowers that are highly leveraged or for borrowers whose
      assets are predominantly traded assets must reflect the performance of the
      underlying assets based on periods of stressed volatilities.


        FAQ
        FAQ1       How are highly leveraged borrowers to be defined (eg will non-
                   financial entities be included in the definition)?

                   The reference to highly leveraged borrowers is intended to capture
                   hedge funds or any other equivalently highly leveraged counterparties
                   that are financial entities.

        FAQ2       How should PDs of highly leveraged non-financial counterparties be
                   estimated if there are no underlying traded assets or other assets with
                   observable prices?

                   CRE36.31 elaborates on the sentence in CRE36.30 that states “…a bank
                   may take into account borrower characteristics that are reflective of
                   the borrower’s vulnerability to adverse economic conditions or
                   unexpected events…”. This means that in the case of highly leveraged
                   counterparties where there is likely a significant vulnerability to market
                   risk, the bank must assess the potential impact on the counterparty’s
                   ability to perform that arises from “periods of stressed volatilities” when
                   assigning a rating and corresponding PD to that counterparty under
                   the IRB framework.


36.32 Given the difficulties in forecasting future events and the influence they will have
      on a particular borrower’s financial condition, a bank must take a conservative
      view of projected information. Furthermore, where limited data are available, a
      bank must adopt a conservative bias to its analysis.




Use of models

36.33 The requirements in this section apply to statistical models and other mechanical
      methods used to assign borrower or facility ratings or in estimation of PDs, LGDs,
      or EADs. Credit scoring models and other mechanical rating procedures generally
      use only a subset of available information. Although mechanical rating
      procedures may sometimes avoid some of the idiosyncratic errors made by rating
      systems in which human judgement plays a large role, mechanical use of limited
      information also is a source of rating errors. Credit scoring models and other
      mechanical procedures are permissible as the primary or partial basis of rating
      assignments, and may play a role in the estimation of loss characteristics.
      Sufficient human judgement and human oversight is necessary to ensure that all
      relevant and material information, including that which is outside the scope of
      the model, is also taken into consideration, and that the model is used
      appropriately.

       (1) The burden is on the bank to satisfy its supervisor that a model or procedure
           has good predictive power and that regulatory capital requirements will not
           be distorted as a result of its use. The variables that are input to the model
           must form a reasonable set of predictors. The model must be accurate on
           average across the range of borrowers or facilities to which the bank is
           exposed and there must be no known material biases.

       (2) The bank must have in place a process for vetting data inputs into a
           statistical default or loss prediction model which includes an assessment of
           the accuracy, completeness and appropriateness of the data specific to the
           assignment of an approved rating.

       (3) The bank must demonstrate that the data used to build the model are
           representative of the population of the bank’s actual borrowers or facilities.

       (4) When combining model results with human judgement, the judgement must
           take into account all relevant and material information not considered by the
           model. The bank must have written guidance describing how human
           judgement and model results are to be combined.

       (5) The bank must have procedures for human review of model-based rating
           assignments. Such procedures should focus on finding and limiting errors
           associated with known model weaknesses and must also include credible
           ongoing efforts to improve the model’s performance.

       (6) The bank must have a regular cycle of model validation that includes
           monitoring of model performance and stability; review of model
           relationships; and testing of model outputs against outcomes.




Documentation of rating system design

36.34 Banks must document in writing their rating systems’ design and operational
      details. The documentation must evidence banks’ compliance with the minimum
      standards, and must address topics such as portfolio differentiation, rating
      criteria, responsibilities of parties that rate borrowers and facilities, definition of
      what constitutes a rating exception, parties that have authority to approve
      exceptions, frequency of rating reviews, and management oversight of the rating
      process. A bank must document the rationale for its choice of internal rating
      criteria and must be able to provide analyses demonstrating that rating criteria
      and procedures are likely to result in ratings that meaningfully differentiate risk.
      Rating criteria and procedures must be periodically reviewed to determine
      whether they remain fully applicable to the current portfolio and to external
      conditions. In addition, a bank must document a history of major changes in the
      risk rating process, and such documentation must support identification of
      changes made to the risk rating process subsequent to the last supervisory
      review. The organisation of rating assignment, including the internal control
      structure, must also be documented.

36.35 Banks must document the specific definitions of default and loss used internally
      and demonstrate consistency with the reference definitions set out in CRE36.69 to
      CRE36.77.

36.36 If the bank employs statistical models in the rating process, the bank must
      document their methodologies. This material must:

       (1) Provide a detailed outline of the theory, assumptions and/or mathematical
           and empirical basis of the assignment of estimates to grades, individual
           obligors, exposures, or pools, and the data source(s) used to estimate the
           model;

       (2) Establish a rigorous statistical process (including out-of-time and out-of-
           sample performance tests) for validating the model; and

       (3) Indicate any circumstances under which the model does not work effectively.

36.37 Use of a model obtained from a third-party vendor that claims proprietary
      technology is not a justification for exemption from documentation or any other
      of the requirements for internal rating systems. The burden is on the model’s
      vendor and the bank to satisfy supervisors.




Section 4: risk rating system operations

Coverage of ratings

36.38 For corporate, sovereign, and bank exposures, each borrower and all recognised
      guarantors must be assigned a rating and each exposure must be associated with
      a facility rating as part of the loan approval process. Similarly, for retail, each
      exposure must be assigned to a pool as part of the loan approval process.

36.39 Each separate legal entity to which the bank is exposed must be separately rated.
      A bank must have policies acceptable to its supervisor regarding the treatment of
      individual entities in a connected group including circumstances under which the
      same rating may or may not be assigned to some or all related entities. Those
      policies must include a process for the identification of specific wrong way risk for
      each legal entity to which the bank is exposed. Transactions with counterparties
      where specific wrong way risk has been identified need to be treated differently
      when calculating the EAD for such exposures (see CRE53.48 of the counterparty
      credit risk chapters of the credit risk standard).


Integrity of rating process : standards for corporate, sovereign, and bank exposures

36.40 Rating assignments and periodic rating reviews must be completed or approved
      by a party that does not directly stand to benefit from the extension of credit.
      Independence of the rating assignment process can be achieved through a range
      of practices that will be carefully reviewed by supervisors. These operational
      processes must be documented in the bank’s procedures and incorporated into
      bank policies. Credit policies and underwriting procedures must reinforce and
      foster the independence of the rating process.

36.41 Borrowers and facilities must have their ratings refreshed at least on an annual
      basis. Certain credits, especially higher risk borrowers or problem exposures, must
      be subject to more frequent review. In addition, banks must initiate a new rating
      if material information on the borrower or facility comes to light.

36.42 The bank must have an effective process to obtain and update relevant and
      material information on the borrower’s financial condition, and on facility
      characteristics that affect LGDs and EADs (such as the condition of collateral).
      Upon receipt, the bank needs to have a procedure to update the borrower’s
      rating in a timely fashion.


Integrity of rating process: standards for retail exposures




36.43
        A bank must review the loss characteristics and delinquency status of each
        identified risk pool on at least an annual basis. It must also review the status of
        individual borrowers within each pool as a means of ensuring that exposures
        continue to be assigned to the correct pool. This requirement may be satisfied by
        review of a representative sample of exposures in the pool.


Overrides

36.44 For rating assignments based on expert judgement, banks must clearly articulate
      the situations in which bank officers may override the outputs of the rating
      process, including how and to what extent such overrides can be used and by
      whom. For model-based ratings, the bank must have guidelines and processes
      for monitoring cases where human judgement has overridden the model’s rating,
      variables were excluded or inputs were altered. These guidelines must include
      identifying personnel that are responsible for approving these overrides. Banks
      must identify overrides and separately track their performance.


Data maintenance

36.45 A bank must collect and store data on key borrower and facility characteristics to
      provide effective support to its internal credit risk measurement and
      management process, to enable the bank to meet the other requirements in this
      document, and to serve as a basis for supervisory reporting. These data should be
      sufficiently detailed to allow retrospective re-allocation of obligors and facilities
      to grades, for example if increasing sophistication of the internal rating system
      suggests that finer segregation of portfolios can be achieved. Furthermore, banks
      must collect and retain data on aspects of their internal ratings as required by the
      disclosure requirements standard (DIS).


Data maintenance: for corporate, sovereign, and bank exposures

36.46 Banks must maintain rating histories on borrowers and recognised guarantors,
      including the rating since the borrower/guarantor was assigned an internal grade,
      the dates the ratings were assigned, the methodology and key data used to
      derive the rating and the person/model responsible. The identity of borrowers
      and facilities that default, and the timing and circumstances of such defaults,
      must be retained. Banks must also retain data on the PDs and realised default
      rates associated with rating grades and ratings migration in order to track the
      predictive power of the borrower rating system.




36.47 Banks using the advanced IRB approach must also collect and store a complete
      history of data on the LGD and EAD estimates associated with each facility and
       the key data used to derive the estimate and the person/model responsible.
       Banks must also collect data on the estimated and realised LGDs and EADs
       associated with each defaulted facility. Banks that reflect the credit risk mitigating
       effects of guarantees/credit derivatives through LGD must retain data on the LGD
       of the facility before and after evaluation of the effects of the guarantee/credit
       derivative. Information about the components of loss or recovery for each
       defaulted exposure must be retained, such as amounts recovered, source of
       recovery (eg collateral, liquidation proceeds and guarantees), time period
       required for recovery, and administrative costs.

36.48 Banks under the foundation approach which utilise supervisory estimates are
      encouraged to retain the relevant data (ie data on loss and recovery experience
      for corporate exposures under the foundation approach, data on realised losses
      for banks using the supervisory slotting criteria).


Data maintenance: for retail exposures

36.49 Banks must retain data used in the process of allocating exposures to pools,
      including data on borrower and transaction risk characteristics used either
      directly or through use of a model, as well as data on delinquency. Banks must
      also retain data on the estimated PDs, LGDs and EADs, associated with pools of
      exposures. For defaulted exposures, banks must retain the data on the pools to
      which the exposure was assigned over the year prior to default and the realised
      outcomes on LGD and EAD.


Stress tests used in assessment of capital adequacy

36.50 An IRB bank must have in place sound stress testing processes for use in the
      assessment of capital adequacy. Stress testing must involve identifying possible
      events or future changes in economic conditions that could have unfavourable
      effects on a bank’s credit exposures and assessment of the bank’s ability to
      withstand such changes. Examples of scenarios that could be used are:

       (1) economic or industry downturns;

       (2) market-risk events; and

       (3) liquidity conditions.




36.51 In addition to the more general tests described above, the bank must perform a
      credit risk stress test to assess the effect of certain specific conditions on its IRB
      regulatory capital requirements. The test to be employed would be one chosen
       by the bank, subject to supervisory review. The test to be employed must be
       meaningful and reasonably conservative. Individual banks may develop different
       approaches to undertaking this stress test requirement, depending on their
       circumstances. For this purpose, the objective is not to require banks to consider
       worst-case scenarios. The bank’s stress test in this context should, however,
       consider at least the effect of mild recession scenarios. In this case, one example
       might be to use two consecutive quarters of zero growth to assess the effect on
       the bank’s PDs, LGDs and EADs, taking account — on a conservative basis — of
       the bank’s international diversification.

36.52 Banks using the double default framework must consider as part of their stress
      testing framework the impact of a deterioration in the credit quality of protection
      providers, in particular the impact of protection providers falling outside the
      eligibility criteria due to rating changes. Banks should also consider the impact of
      the default of one but not both of the obligor and protection provider, and the
      consequent increase in risk and capital requirements at the time of that default.

36.53 Whatever method is used, the bank must include a consideration of the following
      sources of information. First, a bank’s own data should allow estimation of the
      ratings migration of at least some of its exposures. Second, banks should
      consider information about the impact of smaller deterioration in the credit
      environment on a bank’s ratings, giving some information on the likely effect of
      bigger, stress circumstances. Third, banks should evaluate evidence of ratings
      migration in external ratings. This would include the bank broadly matching its
      buckets to rating categories.

36.54 National supervisors may wish to issue guidance to their banks on how the tests
      to be used for this purpose should be designed, bearing in mind conditions in
      their jurisdiction. The results of the stress test may indicate no difference in the
      capital calculated under the IRB rules described in this section of this Framework
      if the bank already uses such an approach for its internal rating purposes. Where
      a bank operates in several markets, it does not need to test for such conditions in
      all of those markets, but a bank should stress portfolios containing the vast
      majority of its total exposures.


Section 5: corporate governance and oversight

Corporate governance




36.55

        All material aspects of the rating and estimation processes must be approved by
        the bank’s board of directors or a designated committee thereof and senior
        management.These parties must possess a general understanding of the bank’s
        risk rating system and detailed comprehension of its associated management
        reports. Senior management must provide notice to the board of directors or a
        designated committee thereof of material changes or exceptions from
        established policies that will materially impact the operations of the bank’s rating
        system.


 This standard refers to a management structure composed of a board
                    of directors and senior management. The Committee is aware that
                    there are significant differences in legislative and regulatory
                    frameworks across countries as regards the functions of the board of
                    directors and senior management. In some countries, the board has the
                    main, if not exclusive, function of supervising the executive body
                    (senior management, general management) so as to ensure that the
                    latter fulfils its tasks. For this reason, in some cases, it is known as a
                    supervisory board. This means that the board has no executive
                    functions. In other countries, by contrast, the board has a broader
                    competence in that it lays down the general framework for the
                    management of the bank. Owing to these differences, the notions of
                    the board of directors and senior management are used in this paper
                    not to identify legal constructs but rather to label two decision-making
                    functions within a bank.


36.56 Senior management also must have a good understanding of the rating system’s
      design and operation, and must approve material differences between
      established procedure and actual practice. Management must also ensure, on an
      ongoing basis, that the rating system is operating properly. Management and
      staff in the credit control function must meet regularly to discuss the
      performance of the rating process, areas needing improvement, and the status of
      efforts to improve previously identified deficiencies.

36.57 Internal ratings must be an essential part of the reporting to these parties.
      Reporting must include risk profile by grade, migration across grades, estimation
      of the relevant parameters per grade, and comparison of realised default rates
      (and LGDs and EADs for banks on advanced approaches) against expectations.
      Reporting frequencies may vary with the significance and type of information and
      the level of the recipient.




Credit risk control

36.58 Banks must have independent credit risk control units that are responsible for the
      design or selection, implementation and performance of their internal rating
      systems. The unit(s) must be functionally independent from the personnel and
      management functions responsible for originating exposures. Areas of
      responsibility must include:

       (1) Testing and monitoring internal grades;

       (2) Production and analysis of summary reports from the bank’s rating system,
           to include historical default data sorted by rating at the time of default and
           one year prior to default, grade migration analyses, and monitoring of trends
           in key rating criteria;

       (3) Implementing procedures to verify that rating definitions are consistently
           applied across departments and geographic areas;

       (4) Reviewing and documenting any changes to the rating process, including the
           reasons for the changes; and

       (5) Reviewing the rating criteria to evaluate if they remain predictive of risk.
           Changes to the rating process, criteria or individual rating parameters must
           be documented and retained for supervisors to review.

36.59 A credit risk control unit must actively participate in the development, selection,
      implementation and validation of rating models. It must assume oversight and
      supervision responsibilities for any models used in the rating process, and
      ultimate responsibility for the ongoing review and alterations to rating models.


Internal and external audit

36.60 Internal audit or an equally independent function must review at least annually
      the bank’s rating system and its operations, including the operations of the credit
      function and the estimation of PDs, LGDs and EADs. Areas of review include
      adherence to all applicable minimum requirements. Internal audit must
      document its findings.




Section 6: use of internal ratings
36.61 Internal ratings and default and loss estimates must play an essential role in the
      credit approval, risk management, internal capital allocations, and corporate
      governance functions of banks using the IRB approach. Ratings systems and
      estimates designed and implemented exclusively for the purpose of qualifying for
      the IRB approach and used only to provide IRB inputs are not acceptable. It is
      recognised that banks will not necessarily be using exactly the same estimates for
      both IRB and all internal purposes. For example, pricing models are likely to use
      PDs and LGDs relevant to the life of the asset. Where there are such differences, a
      bank must document them and demonstrate their reasonableness to the
      supervisor.

36.62 A bank must have a credible track record in the use of internal ratings
      information. Thus, the bank must demonstrate that it has been using a rating
      system that was broadly in line with the minimum requirements articulated in this
      document for at least the three years prior to qualification. A bank using the
      advanced IRB approach must demonstrate that it has been estimating and
      employing LGDs and EADs in a manner that is broadly consistent with the
      minimum requirements for use of own estimates of LGDs and EADs for at least
      the three years prior to qualification. Improvements to a bank’s rating system will
      not render a bank non-compliant with the three-year requirement.


Section 7: risk quantification

Overall requirements for estimation (structure and intent)

36.63 This section addresses the broad standards for own-estimates of PD, LGD, and
      EAD. Generally, all banks using the IRB approaches must estimate a PD for each
      internal borrower grade for corporate, sovereign and bank exposures or for each
      pool in the case of retail exposures.


Banks are not required to produce their own estimates of PD for
                   certain equity exposures and certain exposures that fall within the SL
                   sub-classes.




36.64 PD estimates must be a long-run average of one-year default rates for borrowers
      in the grade, with the exception of retail exposures (see below). Requirements
      specific to PD estimation are provided in CRE36.78 to CRE36.84. Banks on the
      advanced approach must estimate an appropriate LGD (as defined in CRE36.85 to
       CRE36.90) for each of its facilities (or retail pools). Banks on the advanced
       approach must also estimate an appropriate long-run default-weighted average
       EAD for each of its facilities as defined in CRE36.91 and CRE36.92. Requirements
       specific to EAD estimation appear in CRE36.91 to CRE36.97. For corporate,
       sovereign and bank exposures, banks that do not meet the requirements for own-
       estimates of EAD or LGD, above, must use the supervisory estimates of these
       parameters. Standards for use of such estimates are set out in CRE36.124 to
       CRE36.142.

36.65 Internal estimates of PD, LGD, and EAD must incorporate all relevant, material
      and available data, information and methods. A bank may utilise internal data
      and data from external sources (including pooled data). Where internal or
      external data is used, the bank must demonstrate that its estimates are
      representative of long run experience.

36.66 Estimates must be grounded in historical experience and empirical evidence, and
      not based purely on subjective or judgmental considerations. Any changes in
      lending practice or the process for pursuing recoveries over the observation
      period must be taken into account. A bank’s estimates must promptly reflect the
      implications of technical advances and new data and other information, as it
      becomes available. Banks must review their estimates on a yearly basis or more
      frequently.

36.67 The population of exposures represented in the data used for estimation, and
      lending standards in use when the data were generated, and other relevant
      characteristics should be closely matched to or at least comparable with those of
      the bank’s exposures and standards. The bank must also demonstrate that
      economic or market conditions that underlie the data are relevant to current and
      foreseeable conditions. For estimates of LGD and EAD, banks must take into
      account CRE36.85 to CRE36.97. The number of exposures in the sample and the
      data period used for quantification must be sufficient to provide the bank with
      confidence in the accuracy and robustness of its estimates. The estimation
      technique must perform well in out-of-sample tests.




36.68 In general, estimates of PDs, LGDs, and EADs are likely to involve unpredictable
      errors. In order to avoid over-optimism, a bank must add to its estimates a
      margin of conservatism that is related to the likely range of errors. Where
      methods and data are less satisfactory and the likely range of errors is larger, the
      margin of conservatism must be larger. Supervisors may allow some flexibility in
      application of the required standards for data that are collected prior to the date
      of implementation of this Framework. However, in such cases banks must
       demonstrate to their supervisors that appropriate adjustments have been made
       to achieve broad equivalence to the data without such flexibility. Data collected
       beyond the date of implementation must conform to the minimum standards
       unless otherwise stated.


Definition of default

36.69 A default is considered to have occurred with regard to a particular obligor when
      either or both of the two following events have taken place.

       (1) The bank considers that the obligor is unlikely to pay its credit obligations to
           the banking group in full, without recourse by the bank to actions such as
           realising security (if held).

       (2) The obligor is past due more than 90 days on any material credit obligation
           to the banking group. Overdrafts will be considered as being past due once
           the customer has breached an advised limit or been advised of a limit
           smaller than current outstandings.


In the case of retail and public sector entity obligations, for the 90 days
                   figure, a supervisor may substitute a figure up to 180 days for different
                   products, as it considers appropriate to local conditions.


36.70 The elements to be taken as indications of unlikeliness to pay include:

       (1) The bank puts the credit obligation on non-accrued status.

       (2) The bank makes a charge-off or account-specific provision resulting from a
           significant perceived decline in credit quality subsequent to the bank taking
           on the exposure.

       (3) The bank sells the credit obligation at a material credit-related economic loss.




       (4) The bank consents to a distressed restructuring of the credit obligation
           where this is likely to result in a diminished financial obligation caused by the

            material forgiveness, or postponement, of principal, interest or (where
            relevant) fees.

       (5) The bank has filed for the obligor’s bankruptcy or a similar order in respect
           of the obligor’s credit obligation to the banking group.

       (6) The obligor has sought or has been placed in bankruptcy or similar
           protection where this would avoid or delay repayment of the credit
           obligation to the banking group.


In some jurisdictions, specific provisions on equity exposures are set
                   aside for price risk and do not signal default.

Including, in the case of equity holdings assessed under a PD/LGD
                   approach, such distressed restructuring of the equity itself.


36.71 National supervisors will provide appropriate guidance as to how these elements
      must be implemented and monitored.

36.72 For retail exposures, the definition of default can be applied at the level of a
      particular facility, rather than at the level of the obligor. As such, default by a
      borrower on one obligation does not require a bank to treat all other obligations
      to the banking group as defaulted.

36.73 A bank must record actual defaults on IRB exposure classes using this reference
      definition. A bank must also use the reference definition for its estimation of PDs,
      and (where relevant) LGDs and EADs. In arriving at these estimations, a bank may
      use external data available to it that is not itself consistent with that definition,
      subject to the requirements set out in CRE36.79. However, in such cases, banks
      must demonstrate to their supervisors that appropriate adjustments to the data
      have been made to achieve broad equivalence with the reference definition. This
      same condition would apply to any internal data used up to implementation of
      this Framework. Internal data (including that pooled by banks) used in such
      estimates beyond the date of implementation of this Framework must be
      consistent with the reference definition.




36.74 If the bank considers that a previously defaulted exposure’s status is such that no
      trigger of the reference definition any longer applies, the bank must rate the



       borrower and estimate LGD as they would for a non-defaulted facility. Should the
       reference definition subsequently be triggered, a second default would be
       deemed to have occurred.


Re-ageing

36.75 The bank must have clearly articulated and documented policies in respect of the
      counting of days past due, in particular in respect of the re-ageing of the facilities
      and the granting of extensions, deferrals, renewals and rewrites to existing
      accounts. At a minimum, the re-ageing policy must include: (a) approval
      authorities and reporting requirements; (b) minimum age of a facility before it is
      eligible for re-ageing; (c) delinquency levels of facilities that are eligible for re-
      ageing; (d) maximum number of re-ageings per facility; and (e) a reassessment of
      the borrower’s capacity to repay. These policies must be applied consistently over
      time, and must support the ‘use test’ (ie if a bank treats a re-aged exposure in a
      similar fashion to other delinquent exposures more than the past-due cut off
      point, this exposure must be recorded as in default for IRB purposes).


Treatment of overdrafts

36.76 Authorised overdrafts must be subject to a credit limit set by the bank and
      brought to the knowledge of the client. Any break of this limit must be
      monitored; if the account were not brought under the limit after 90 to 180 days
      (subject to the applicable past-due trigger), it would be considered as defaulted.
      Non-authorised overdrafts will be associated with a zero limit for IRB purposes.
      Thus, days past due commence once any credit is granted to an unauthorised
      customer; if such credit were not repaid within 90 to 180 days, the exposure
      would be considered in default. Banks must have in place rigorous internal
      policies for assessing the creditworthiness of customers who are offered overdraft
      accounts.


Definition of loss for all asset classes




36.77 The definition of loss used in estimating LGD is economic loss. When measuring
      economic loss, all relevant factors should be taken into account. This must
      include material discount effects and material direct and indirect costs associated
      with collecting on the exposure. Banks must not simply measure the loss
      recorded in accounting records, although they must be able to compare

       accounting and economic losses. The bank’s own workout and collection
       expertise significantly influences their recovery rates and must be reflected in
       their LGD estimates, but adjustments to estimates for such expertise must be
       conservative until the bank has sufficient internal empirical evidence of the
       impact of its expertise.


Requirements specific to PD estimation : corporate, sovereign, and bank exposures

36.78 Banks must use information and techniques that take appropriate account of the
      long-run experience when estimating the average PD for each rating grade. For
      example, banks may use one or more of the three specific techniques set out
      below: internal default experience, mapping to external data, and statistical
      default models.

36.79 Banks may have a primary technique and use others as a point of comparison
      and potential adjustment. Supervisors will not be satisfied by mechanical
      application of a technique without supporting analysis. Banks must recognise the
      importance of judgmental considerations in combining results of techniques and
      in making adjustments for limitations of techniques and information.

       (1) A bank may use data on internal default experience for the estimation of PD.
           A bank must demonstrate in its analysis that the estimates are reflective of
           underwriting standards and of any differences in the rating system that
           generated the data and the current rating system. Where only limited data
           are available, or where underwriting standards or rating systems have
           changed, the bank must add a greater margin of conservatism in its estimate
           of PD. The use of pooled data across institutions may also be recognised. A
           bank must demonstrate that the internal rating systems and criteria of other
           banks in the pool are comparable with its own.




       (2) Banks may associate or map their internal grades to the scale used by an
           external credit assessment institution or similar institution and then attribute
           the default rate observed for the external institution’s grades to the bank’s
           grades. Mappings must be based on a comparison of internal rating criteria
           to the criteria used by the external institution and on a comparison of the
           internal and external ratings of any common borrowers. Biases or
           inconsistencies in the mapping approach or underlying data must be
           avoided. The external institution’s criteria underlying the data used for
           quantification must be oriented to the risk of the borrower and not reflect
           transaction characteristics. The bank’s analysis must include a comparison of
           the default definitions used, subject to the requirements in CRE36.69 to
           CRE36.74. The bank must document the basis for the mapping.

       (3) A bank is allowed to use a simple average of default-probability estimates
           for individual borrowers in a given grade, where such estimates are drawn
           from statistical default prediction models. The bank’s use of default
           probability models for this purpose must meet the standards specified in
           CRE36.33.

36.80 Irrespective of whether a bank is using external, internal, or pooled data sources,
      or a combination of the three, for its PD estimation, the length of the underlying
      historical observation period used must be at least five years for at least one
      source. If the available observation period spans a longer period for any source,
      and this data are relevant and material, this longer period must be used.


Requirements specific to PD estimation: retail exposures

36.81 Given the bank-specific basis of assigning exposures to pools, banks must regard
      internal data as the primary source of information for estimating loss
      characteristics. Banks are permitted to use external data or statistical models for
      quantification provided a strong link can be demonstrated between (a) the bank’s
      process of assigning exposures to a pool and the process used by the external
      data source, and (b) between the bank’s internal risk profile and the composition
      of the external data. In all cases banks must use all relevant and material data
      sources as points of comparison.




36.82 One method for deriving long-run average estimates of PD and default-weighted
      average loss rates given default (as defined in CRE36.85) for retail would be
      based on an estimate of the expected long-run loss rate. A bank may (i) use an
      appropriate PD estimate to infer the long-run default-weighted average loss rate
      given default, or (ii) use a long-run default-weighted average loss rate given
      default to infer the appropriate PD. In either case, it is important to recognise that



       the LGD used for the IRB capital calculation cannot be less than the long-run
       default-weighted average loss rate given default and must be consistent with the
       concepts defined in CRE36.85.

36.83 Irrespective of whether banks are using external, internal, pooled data sources, or
      a combination of the three, for their estimation of loss characteristics, the length
      of the underlying historical observation period used must be at least five years. If
      the available observation spans a longer period for any source, and these data
      are relevant, this longer period must be used. A bank need not give equal
      importance to historic data if it can convince its supervisor that more recent data
      are a better predictor of loss rates.

36.84 The Committee recognises that seasoning can be quite material for some long-
      term retail exposures characterised by seasoning effects that peak several years
      after origination. Banks should anticipate the implications of rapid exposure
      growth and take steps to ensure that their estimation techniques are accurate,
      and that their current capital level and earnings and funding prospects are
      adequate to cover their future capital needs. In order to avoid gyrations in their
      required capital positions arising from short-term PD horizons, banks are also
      encouraged to adjust PD estimates upward for anticipated seasoning effects,
      provided such adjustments are applied in a consistent fashion over time. Within
      some jurisdictions, such adjustments might be made mandatory, subject to
      supervisory discretion.


Requirements specific to own-LGD estimates: standards for all asset classes




36.85 A bank must estimate an LGD for each facility that aims to reflect economic
      downturn conditions where necessary to capture the relevant risks. This LGD
      cannot be less than the long-run default-weighted average loss rate given default
      calculated based on the average economic loss of all observed defaults within the
      data source for that type of facility. In addition, a bank must take into account the
      potential for the LGD of the facility to be higher than the default-weighted
      average during a period when credit losses are substantially higher than average.
      For certain types of exposures, loss severities may not exhibit such cyclical
      variability and LGD estimates may not differ materially (or possibly at all) from the
      long-run default-weighted average. However, for other exposures, this cyclical
      variability in loss severities may be important and banks will need to incorporate
      it into their LGD estimates. For this purpose, banks may use averages of loss
      severities observed during periods of high credit losses, forecasts based on
      appropriately conservative assumptions, or other similar methods. Appropriate
      estimates of LGD during periods of high credit losses might be formed using
      either internal and/or external data. Supervisors will continue to monitor and
      encourage the development of appropriate approaches to this issue.

36.86 In its analysis, the bank must consider the extent of any dependence between the
      risk of the borrower and that of the collateral or collateral provider. Cases where
      there is a significant degree of dependence must be addressed in a conservative
      manner. Any currency mismatch between the underlying obligation and the
      collateral must also be considered and treated conservatively in the bank’s
      assessment of LGD.

36.87 LGD estimates must be grounded in historical recovery rates and, when
      applicable, must not solely be based on the collateral’s estimated market value.
      This requirement recognises the potential inability of banks to gain both control
      of their collateral and liquidate it expeditiously. To the extent, that LGD estimates
      take into account the existence of collateral, banks must establish internal
      requirements for collateral management, operational procedures, legal certainty
      and risk management process that are generally consistent with those required
      for the standardised approach.




36.88 Recognising the principle that realised losses can at times systematically exceed
      expected levels, the LGD assigned to a defaulted asset should reflect the
      possibility that the bank would have to recognise additional, unexpected losses
      during the recovery period. For each defaulted asset, the bank must also
      construct its best estimate of the expected loss on that asset based on current
      economic circumstances and facility status. The amount, if any, by which the LGD
      on a defaulted asset exceeds the bank’s best estimate of expected loss on the
      asset represents the capital requirement for that asset, and should be set by the
      bank on a risk-sensitive basis in accordance with CRE31.7, CRE31.20, CRE31.22



       and CRE31.24. Instances where the best estimate of expected loss on a defaulted
       asset is less than the sum of specific provisions and partial charge-offs on that
       asset will attract supervisory scrutiny and must be justified by the bank.


Requirements specific to own-LGD estimates: additional standards for corporate,
sovereign, and bank exposures

36.89 Estimates of LGD must be based on a minimum data observation period that
      should ideally cover at least one complete economic cycle but must in any case
      be no shorter than a period of seven years for at least one source. If the available
      observation period spans a longer period for any source, and the data are
      relevant, this longer period must be used.


Requirements specific to own-LGD estimates: additional standards for retail
exposures

36.90 The minimum data observation period for LGD estimates for retail exposures is
      five years. The less data a bank has, the more conservative it must be in its
      estimation. A bank need not give equal importance to historic data if it can
      demonstrate to its supervisor that more recent data are a better predictor of loss
      rates.


Requirements specific to own-EAD estimates : standards for all asset classes




36.91 EAD for an on-balance sheet or off-balance sheet item is defined as the expected
      gross exposure of the facility upon default of the obligor. For on-balance sheet
      items, banks must estimate EAD at no less than the current drawn amount,
      subject to recognising the effects of on-balance sheet netting as specified in the
      foundation approach. The minimum requirements for the recognition of netting
      are the same as those under the foundation approach. The additional minimum
      requirements for internal estimation of EAD under the advanced approach,

       therefore, focus on the estimation of EAD for off-balance sheet items (excluding
       transactions that expose banks to counterparty credit risk as set out in CRE51).
       Advanced approach banks must have established procedures in place for the
       estimation of EAD for off-balance sheet items. These must specify the estimates
       of EAD to be used for each facility type. Banks’ estimates of EAD should reflect
       the possibility of additional drawings by the borrower up to and after the time a
       default event is triggered. Where estimates of EAD differ by facility type, the
       delineation of these facilities must be clear and unambiguous.

36.92 Under the advanced approach, banks must assign an estimate of EAD for each
      facility. It must be an estimate of the long-run default-weighted average EAD for
      similar facilities and borrowers over a sufficiently long period of time, but with a
      margin of conservatism appropriate to the likely range of errors in the estimate. If
      a positive correlation can reasonably be expected between the default frequency
      and the magnitude of EAD, the EAD estimate must incorporate a larger margin of
      conservatism. Moreover, for exposures for which EAD estimates are volatile over
      the economic cycle, the bank must use EAD estimates that are appropriate for an
      economic downturn, if these are more conservative than the long-run average.
      For banks that have been able to develop their own EAD models, this could be
      achieved by considering the cyclical nature, if any, of the drivers of such models.
      Other banks may have sufficient internal data to examine the impact of previous
      recession(s). However, some banks may only have the option of making
      conservative use of external data.

36.93 The criteria by which estimates of EAD are derived must be plausible and
      intuitive, and represent what the bank believes to be the material drivers of EAD.
      The choices must be supported by credible internal analysis by the bank. The
      bank must be able to provide a breakdown of its EAD experience by the factors it
      sees as the drivers of EAD. A bank must use all relevant and material information
      in its derivation of EAD estimates. Across facility types, a bank must review its
      estimates of EAD when material new information comes to light and at least on
      an annual basis.




36.94 Due consideration must be paid by the bank to its specific policies and strategies
      adopted in respect of account monitoring and payment processing. The bank
      must also consider its ability and willingness to prevent further drawings in
      circumstances short of payment default, such as covenant violations or other

       technical default events. Banks must also have adequate systems and procedures
       in place to monitor facility amounts, current outstandings against committed
       lines and changes in outstandings per borrower and per grade. The bank must be
       able to monitor outstanding balances on a daily basis.

36.95 For transactions that expose banks to counterparty credit risk, estimates of EAD
      must fulfil the requirements set forth in the counterparty credit risk chapters
      CRE50 to CRE55.


Requirements specific to own-EAD estimates: additional standards for corporate,
sovereign and bank exposures

36.96 Estimates of EAD must be based on a time period that must ideally cover a
      complete economic cycle but must in any case be no shorter than a period of
      seven years. If the available observation period spans a longer period for any
      source, and the data are relevant, this longer period must be used. EAD estimates
      must be calculated using a default-weighted average and not a time-weighted
      average.


Requirements specific to own-EAD estimates: additional standards for retail
exposures

36.97 The minimum data observation period for EAD estimates for retail exposures is
      five years. The less data a bank has, the more conservative it must be in its
      estimation. A bank need not give equal importance to historic data if it can
      demonstrate to its supervisor that more recent data are a better predictor of
      drawdowns.


Requirements for assessing effect of guarantees: standards for corporate,
sovereign, and bank exposures where own estimates of LGD are used and
standards for retail exposures




36.98 When a bank uses its own estimates of LGD, it may reflect the risk-mitigating
      effect of guarantees through an adjustment to PD or LGD estimates. The option
      to adjust LGDs is available only to those banks that have been approved to use
      their own internal estimates of LGD. For retail exposures, where guarantees exist,
      either in support of an individual obligation or a pool of exposures, a bank may
      reflect the risk-reducing effect either through its estimates of PD or LGD,

       provided this is done consistently. In adopting one or the other technique, a bank
       must adopt a consistent approach, both across types of guarantees and over time.

36.99 In all cases, both the borrower and all recognised guarantors must be assigned a
      borrower rating at the outset and on an ongoing basis. A bank must follow all
      minimum requirements for assigning borrower ratings set out in this document,
      including the regular monitoring of the guarantor’s condition and ability and
      willingness to honour its obligations. Consistent with the requirements in CRE36.
      46 and CRE36.47, a bank must retain all relevant information on the borrower
      absent the guarantee and the guarantor. In the case of retail guarantees, these
      requirements also apply to the assignment of an exposure to a pool, and the
      estimation of PD.

36.100 In no case can the bank assign the guaranteed exposure an adjusted PD or LGD
      such that the adjusted risk weight would be lower than that of a comparable,
      direct exposure to the guarantor. Neither criteria nor rating processes are
      permitted to consider possible favourable effects of imperfect expected
      correlation between default events for the borrower and guarantor for purposes
      of regulatory minimum capital requirements. As such, the adjusted risk weight
      must not reflect the risk mitigation of “double default.”

36.101 There are no restrictions on the types of eligible guarantors. The bank must,
      however, have clearly specified criteria for the types of guarantors it will
      recognise for regulatory capital purposes.

36.102 The guarantee must be evidenced in writing, non-cancellable on the part of the
      guarantor, in force until the debt is satisfied in full (to the extent of the amount
      and tenor of the guarantee) and legally enforceable against the guarantor in a
      jurisdiction where the guarantor has assets to attach and enforce a judgement.
      However, in contrast to the foundation approach to corporate, bank, and
      sovereign exposures, guarantees prescribing conditions under which the
      guarantor may not be obliged to perform (conditional guarantees) may be
      recognised under certain conditions. Specifically, the onus is on the bank to
      demonstrate that the assignment criteria adequately address any potential
      reduction in the risk mitigation effect.




36.103 A bank must have clearly specified criteria for adjusting borrower grades or LGD
      estimates (or in the case of retail and eligible purchased receivables, the process
      of allocating exposures to pools) to reflect the impact of guarantees for
      regulatory capital purposes. These criteria must be as detailed as the criteria for
      assigning exposures to grades consistent with CRE36.25 and CRE36.26, and must
      follow all minimum requirements for assigning borrower or facility ratings set out
      in this document.

36.104 The criteria must be plausible and intuitive, and must address the guarantor’s
      ability and willingness to perform under the guarantee. The criteria must also
      address the likely timing of any payments and the degree to which the guarantor’
      s ability to perform under the guarantee is correlated with the borrower’s ability
      to repay. The bank’s criteria must also consider the extent to which residual risk
      to the borrower remains, for example a currency mismatch between the
      guarantee and the underlying exposure.

36.105 In adjusting borrower grades or LGD estimates (or in the case of retail and
      eligible purchased receivables, the process of allocating exposures to pools),
      banks must take all relevant available information into account.


Requirements for assessing effect of credit derivatives: standards for corporate,
sovereign, and bank exposures where own estimates of LGD are used and
standards for retail exposures

36.106 The minimum requirements for guarantees are relevant also for single-name
      credit derivatives. Additional considerations arise in respect of asset mismatches.
      The criteria used for assigning adjusted borrower grades or LGD estimates (or
      pools) for exposures hedged with credit derivatives must require that the asset
      on which the protection is based (the reference asset) cannot be different from
      the underlying asset, unless the conditions outlined in the foundation approach
      are met.

36.107 In addition, the criteria must address the payout structure of the credit derivative
      and conservatively assess the impact this has on the level and timing of
      recoveries. The bank must also consider the extent to which other forms of
      residual risk remain.


Requirements for assessing effect of guarantees and credit derivatives: standards
for banks using foundation LGD estimates

36.108 The minimum requirements outlined in CRE36.98 to CRE36.107 apply to banks
      using the foundation LGD estimates with the following exceptions:



       (1) The bank is not able to use an ‘LGD-adjustment’ option; and

       (2) The range of eligible guarantees and guarantors is limited to those outlined
           in CRE32.21.


Requirements specific to estimating PD and LGD (or EL) for qualifying purchased
receivables

36.109 The following minimum requirements for risk quantification must be satisfied for
      any purchased receivables (corporate or retail) making use of the top-down
      treatment of default risk and/or the IRB treatments of dilution risk.

36.110 The purchasing bank will be required to group the receivables into sufficiently
      homogeneous pools so that accurate and consistent estimates of PD and LGD (or
      EL) for default losses and EL estimates of dilution losses can be determined. In
      general, the risk bucketing process will reflect the seller’s underwriting practices
      and the heterogeneity of its customers. In addition, methods and data for
      estimating PD, LGD, and EL must comply with the existing risk quantification
      standards for retail exposures. In particular, quantification should reflect all
      information available to the purchasing bank regarding the quality of the
      underlying receivables, including data for similar pools provided by the seller, by
      the purchasing bank, or by external sources. The purchasing bank must
      determine whether the data provided by the seller are consistent with
      expectations agreed upon by both parties concerning, for example, the type,
      volume and on-going quality of receivables purchased. Where this is not the
      case, the purchasing bank is expected to obtain and rely upon more relevant
      data.

36.111 A bank purchasing receivables has to justify confidence that current and future
      advances can be repaid from the liquidation of (or collections against) the
      receivables pool. To qualify for the top-down treatment of default risk, the
      receivable pool and overall lending relationship should be closely monitored and
      controlled. Specifically, a bank will have to demonstrate the following:

       (1) Legal certainty (see CRE36.112).

       (2) Effectiveness of monitoring systems (see CRE36.113)

       (3) Effectiveness of work-out systems (see CRE36.114)

       (4) Effectiveness of systems for controlling collateral, credit availability, and cash
           (see CRE36.115)

       (5) Compliance with the bank’s internal policies and procedures (see CRE36.116
           and CRE36.117)




36.112 Legal certainty: the structure of the facility must ensure that under all foreseeable
      circumstances the bank has effective ownership and control of the cash
      remittances from the receivables, including incidences of seller or servicer distress
      and bankruptcy. When the obligor makes payments directly to a seller or servicer,
      the bank must verify regularly that payments are forwarded completely and
      within the contractually agreed terms. As well, ownership over the receivables
      and cash receipts should be protected against bankruptcy ‘stays’ or legal
      challenges that could materially delay the lender’s ability to liquidate/assign the
      receivables or retain control over cash receipts.

36.113 Effectiveness of monitoring systems: the bank must be able to monitor both the
      quality of the receivables and the financial condition of the seller and servicer. In
      particular:

       (1) The bank must:

            (a) assess the correlation among the quality of the receivables and the
                financial condition of both the seller and servicer; and

            (b) have in place internal policies and procedures that provide adequate
                safeguards to protect against such contingencies, including the
                assignment of an internal risk rating for each seller and servicer.

       (2) The bank must have clear and effective policies and procedures for
           determining seller and servicer eligibility. The bank or its agent must conduct
           periodic reviews of sellers and servicers in order to verify the accuracy of
           reports from the seller/servicer, detect fraud or operational weaknesses, and
           verify the quality of the seller’s credit policies and servicer’s collection
           policies and procedures. The findings of these reviews must be well
           documented.

       (3) The bank must have the ability to assess the characteristics of the receivables
           pool, including:

            (a) over-advances;

            (b) history of the seller’s arrears, bad debts, and bad debt allowances;

            (c)   payment terms; and

            (d) potential contra accounts.

       (4) The bank must have effective policies and procedures for monitoring on an
           aggregate basis single-obligor concentrations both within and across
           receivables pools.




       (5) The bank must receive timely and sufficiently detailed reports of receivables
           ageings and dilutions to

            (a) ensure compliance with the bank’s eligibility criteria and advancing
                policies governing purchased receivables, and

            (b) provide an effective means with which to monitor and confirm the seller’
                s terms of sale (eg invoice date ageing) and dilution.

36.114 Effectiveness of work-out systems: an effective programme requires systems and
      procedures not only for detecting deterioration in the seller’s financial condition
      and deterioration in the quality of the receivables at an early stage, but also for
      addressing emerging problems pro-actively. In particular:

       (1) The bank should have clear and effective policies, procedures, and
           information systems to monitor compliance with (a) all contractual terms of
           the facility (including covenants, advancing formulas, concentration limits,
           early amortisation triggers, etc) as well as (b) the bank’s internal policies
           governing advance rates and receivables eligibility. The bank’s systems
           should track covenant violations and waivers as well as exceptions to
           established policies and procedures.

       (2) To limit inappropriate draws, the bank should have effective policies and
           procedures for detecting, approving, monitoring, and correcting over-
           advances.

       (3) The bank should have effective policies and procedures for dealing with
           financially weakened sellers or servicers and/or deterioration in the quality of
           receivable pools. These include, but are not necessarily limited to, early
           termination triggers in revolving facilities and other covenant protections, a
           structured and disciplined approach to dealing with covenant violations, and
           clear and effective policies and procedures for initiating legal actions and
           dealing with problem receivables.

36.115 Effectiveness of systems for controlling collateral, credit availability, and cash: the
      bank must have clear and effective policies and procedures governing the control
      of receivables, credit, and cash. In particular:




       (1) Written internal policies must specify all material elements of the receivables
           purchase programme, including the advancing rates, eligible collateral,
           necessary documentation, concentration limits, and how cash receipts are to
           be handled. These elements should take appropriate account of all relevant
           and material factors, including the seller’s/servicer’s financial condition, risk
           concentrations, and trends in the quality of the receivables and the seller’s
           customer base.

       (2) Internal systems must ensure that funds are advanced only against specified
           supporting collateral and documentation (such as servicer attestations,
           invoices, shipping documents, etc).

36.116 Compliance with the bank’s internal policies and procedures: given the reliance
      on monitoring and control systems to limit credit risk, the bank should have an
      effective internal process for assessing compliance with all critical policies and
      procedures, including:

       (1) Regular internal and/or external audits of all critical phases of the bank’s
           receivables purchase programme

       (2) Verification of the separation of duties

            (a) between the assessment of the seller/servicer and the assessment of the
                obligor; and

            (b) between the assessment of the seller/servicer and the field audit of the
                seller/servicer.

36.117 A bank’s effective internal process for assessing compliance with all critical
      policies and procedures should also include evaluations of back office operations,
      with particular focus on qualifications, experience, staffing levels, and supporting
      systems.


Section 8: validation of internal estimates
36.118 Banks must have a robust system in place to validate the accuracy and
      consistency of rating systems, processes, and the estimation of all relevant risk
      components. A bank must demonstrate to its supervisor that the internal
      validation process enables it to assess the performance of internal rating and risk
      estimation systems consistently and meaningfully.




36.119 Banks must regularly compare realised default rates with estimated PDs for each
      grade and be able to demonstrate that the realised default rates are within the
      expected range for that grade. Banks using the advanced IRB approach must
      complete such analysis for their estimates of LGDs and EADs. Such comparisons
      must make use of historical data that are over as long a period as possible. The
       methods and data used in such comparisons by the bank must be clearly
       documented by the bank. This analysis and documentation must be updated at
       least annually.

36.120 Banks must also use other quantitative validation tools and comparisons with
      relevant external data sources. The analysis must be based on data that are
      appropriate to the portfolio, are updated regularly, and cover a relevant
      observation period. Banks’ internal assessments of the performance of their own
      rating systems must be based on long data histories, covering a range of
      economic conditions, and ideally one or more complete business cycles.
 
36.121 Banks must demonstrate that quantitative testing methods and other validation
      methods do not vary systematically with the economic cycle. Changes in methods
      and data (both data sources and periods covered) must be clearly and thoroughly
      documented.

36.122 Banks must have well-articulated internal standards for situations where
      deviations in realised PDs, LGDs and EADs from expectations become significant
      enough to call the validity of the estimates into question. These standards must
      take account of business cycles and similar systematic variability in default
      experiences. Where realised values continue to be higher than expected values,
      banks must revise estimates upward to reflect their default and loss experience.

36.123 Where banks rely on supervisory, rather than internal, estimates of risk
      parameters, they are encouraged to compare realised LGDs and EADs to those
      set by the supervisors. The information on realised LGDs and EADs should form
      part of the bank’s assessment of economic capital.


Section 9: supervisory LGD and EAD estimates
36.124 Banks under the foundation IRB approach, which do not meet the requirements
      for own-estimates of LGD and EAD, above, must meet the minimum
      requirements described in the standardised approach to receive recognition for
      eligible financial collateral (as set out in the credit risk mitigation chapter of the
      standardised approach (CRE22). They must meet the following additional
      minimum requirements in order to receive recognition for additional collateral
      types.




Definition of eligibility of commercial real estate and residential real estate as
collateral

36.125 Eligible commercial and residential real estate collateral for corporate, sovereign
      and bank exposures are defined as:

       (1) Collateral where the risk of the borrower is not materially dependent upon
           the performance of the underlying property or project, but rather on the
           underlying capacity of the borrower to repay the debt from other sources. As
           such, repayment of the facility is not materially dependent on any cash flow
           generated by the underlying commercial or residential real estate serving as
           collateral; and

       (2) Additionally, the value of the collateral pledged must not be materially
           dependent on the performance of the borrower. This requirement is not
           intended to preclude situations where purely macro-economic factors affect
           both the value of the collateral and the performance of the borrower.


 The Committee recognises that in some countries where multifamily
                   housing makes up an important part of the housing market and where
                   public policy is supportive of that sector, including specially established
                   public sector companies as major providers, the risk characteristics of
                   lending secured by mortgage on such residential real estate can be
                   similar to those of traditional corporate exposures. The national
                   supervisor may under such circumstances recognise mortgage on
                   multifamily residential real estate as eligible collateral for corporate
                   exposures.


36.126 In light of the generic description above and the definition of corporate
      exposures, income producing real estate that falls under the SL asset class is
      specifically excluded from recognition as collateral for corporate exposures.




 As noted in the footnote to CRE32.7, in exceptional circumstances for
                    well-developed and long-established markets, mortgages on office and
                    /or multi-purpose commercial premises and/or multi-tenanted
                    commercial premises may have the potential to receive recognition as
                    collateral in the corporate portfolio. Please refer to the footnote of
                    CRE20.25 for a discussion of the eligibility criteria that would apply.



Operational requirements for eligible commercial or residential real estate

36.127 Subject to meeting the definition above, commercial and residential real estate
      will be eligible for recognition as collateral for corporate claims only if all of the
      following operational requirements are met.

       (1) Legal enforceability: any claim on a collateral taken must be legally
           enforceable in all relevant jurisdictions, and any claim on collateral must be
           properly filed on a timely basis. Collateral interests must reflect a perfected
           lien (ie all legal requirements for establishing the claim have been fulfilled).
           Furthermore, the collateral agreement and the legal process underpinning it
           must be such that they provide for the bank to realise the value of the
           collateral within a reasonable timeframe.

       (2) Objective market value of collateral: the collateral must be valued at or less
           than the current fair value under which the property could be sold under
           private contract between a willing seller and an arm’s-length buyer on the
           date of valuation.

       (3) Frequent revaluation: the bank is expected to monitor the value of the
           collateral on a frequent basis and at a minimum once every year. More
           frequent monitoring is suggested where the market is subject to significant
           changes in conditions. Statistical methods of evaluation (eg reference to
           house price indices, sampling) may be used to update estimates or to
           identify collateral that may have declined in value and that may need re-
           appraisal. A qualified professional must evaluate the property when
           information indicates that the value of the collateral may have declined
           materially relative to general market prices or when a credit event, such as
           default, occurs.





      (4) Junior liens: In some member countries, eligible collateral will be restricted to
          situations where the lender has a first charge over the property. Junior liens
          may be taken into account where there is no doubt that the claim for
          collateral is legally enforceable and constitutes an efficient credit risk
          mitigant. When recognised, junior liens are to be treated using the C*/C**

           threshold, which is used for senior liens. In such cases, the C* and C** are
           calculated by taking into account the sum of the junior lien and all more
           senior liens.


In some of these jurisdictions, first liens are subject to the prior right of
                  preferential creditors, such as outstanding tax claims and employees’
                  wages.


36.128 Additional collateral management requirements are as follows:

      (1) The types of commercial and residential real estate collateral accepted by the
          bank and lending policies (advance rates) when this type of collateral is
          taken must be clearly documented.

      (2) The bank must take steps to ensure that the property taken as collateral is
          adequately insured against damage or deterioration.

      (3) The bank must monitor on an ongoing basis the extent of any permissible
          prior claims (eg tax) on the property.

      (4) The bank must appropriately monitor the risk of environmental liability
          arising in respect of the collateral, such as the presence of toxic material on a
          property.


Requirements for recognition of financial receivables : definition of eligible
receivables



36.129 Eligible financial receivables are claims with an original maturity of less than or
      equal to one year where repayment will occur through the commercial or
      financial flows related to the underlying assets of the borrower. This includes
      both self-liquidating debt arising from the sale of goods or services linked to a
      commercial transaction and general amounts owed by buyers, suppliers, renters,
      national and local governmental authorities, or other non-affiliated parties not
      related to the sale of goods or services linked to a commercial transaction.
      Eligible receivables do not include those associated with securitisations, sub-
      participations or credit derivatives.


Requirements for recognition of financial receivables: legal certainty

36.130 The legal mechanism by which collateral is given must be robust and ensure that
      the lender has clear rights over the proceeds from the collateral.

36.131 Banks must take all steps necessary to fulfil local requirements in respect of the
      enforceability of security interest, eg by registering a security interest with a
      registrar. There should be a framework that allows the potential lender to have a
      perfected first priority claim over the collateral.

36.132 All documentation used in collateralised transactions must be binding on all
      parties and legally enforceable in all relevant jurisdictions. Banks must have
      conducted sufficient legal review to verify this and have a well-founded legal
      basis to reach this conclusion, and undertake such further review as necessary to
      ensure continuing enforceability.

36.133 The collateral arrangements must be properly documented, with a clear and
      robust procedure for the timely collection of collateral proceeds. Banks’
      procedures should ensure that any legal conditions required for declaring the
      default of the customer and timely collection of collateral are observed. In the
      event of the obligor’s financial distress or default, the bank should have legal
      authority to sell or assign the receivables to other parties without consent of the
      receivables’ obligors.


Requirements for recognition of financial receivables: risk management

36.134 The bank must have a sound process for determining the credit risk in the
      receivables. Such a process should include, among other things, analyses of the
      borrower’s business and industry (e.g. effects of the business cycle) and the types
      of customers with whom the borrower does business. Where the bank relies on
      the borrower to ascertain the credit risk of the customers, the bank must review
      the borrower’s credit policy to ascertain its soundness and credibility.




36.135

       The margin between the amount of the exposure and the value of the receivables
       must reflect all appropriate factors, including the cost of collection, concentration
       within the receivables pool pledged by an individual borrower, and potential
       concentration risk within the bank’s total exposures.

36.136 The bank must maintain a continuous monitoring process that is appropriate for
      the specific exposures (either immediate or contingent) attributable to the
      collateral to be utilised as a risk mitigant. This process may include, as
      appropriate and relevant, ageing reports, control of trade documents, borrowing
      base certificates, frequent audits of collateral, confirmation of accounts, control of
      the proceeds of accounts paid, analyses of dilution (credits given by the borrower
      to the issuers) and regular financial analysis of both the borrower and the issuers
      of the receivables, especially in the case when a small number of large-sized
      receivables are taken as collateral. Observance of the bank’s overall concentration
      limits should be monitored. Additionally, compliance with loan covenants,
      environmental restrictions, and other legal requirements should be reviewed on a
      regular basis.

36.137 The receivables pledged by a borrower should be diversified and not be unduly
      correlated with the borrower. Where the correlation is high, e.g. where some
      issuers of the receivables are reliant on the borrower for their viability or the
      borrower and the issuers belong to a common industry, the attendant risks
      should be taken into account in the setting of margins for the collateral pool as a
      whole. Receivables from affiliates of the borrower (including subsidiaries and
      employees) will not be recognised as risk mitigants.

36.138 The bank should have a documented process for collecting receivable payments
      in distressed situations. The requisite facilities for collection should be in place,
      even when the bank normally looks to the borrower for collections.


Requirements for recognition of other physical collateral

36.139 Supervisors may allow for recognition of the credit risk mitigating effect of certain
      other physical collateral. Each supervisor will determine which, if any, collateral
      types in its jurisdiction meet the following two standards:

       (1) Existence of liquid markets for disposal of collateral in an expeditious and
           economically efficient manner.




       (2) Existence of well established, publicly available market prices for the
           collateral. Supervisors will seek to ensure that the amount a bank receives
           when collateral is realised does not deviate significantly from these market
           prices.

36.140 In order for a given bank to receive recognition for additional physical collateral,
      it must meet all the standards in CRE36.127 and CRE36.128, subject to the
      following modifications.

       (1) With the sole exception of permissible prior claims specified in the footnote
           to CRE36.127, only first liens on, or charges over, collateral are permissible.
           As such, the bank must have priority over all other lenders to the realised
           proceeds of the collateral.

       (2) The loan agreement must include detailed descriptions of the collateral plus
           detailed specifications of the manner and frequency of revaluation.

       (3) The types of physical collateral accepted by the bank and policies and
           practices in respect of the appropriate amount of each type of collateral
           relative to the exposure amount must be clearly documented in internal
           credit policies and procedures and available for examination and/or audit
           review.

       (4) Bank credit policies with regard to the transaction structure must address
           appropriate collateral requirements relative to the exposure amount, the
           ability to liquidate the collateral readily, the ability to establish objectively a
           price or market value, the frequency with which the value can readily be
           obtained (including a professional appraisal or valuation), and the volatility
           of the value of the collateral. The periodic revaluation process must pay
           particular attention to “fashion-sensitive” collateral to ensure that valuations
           are appropriately adjusted downward of fashion, or model-year,
           obsolescence as well as physical obsolescence or deterioration.

       (5) In cases of inventories (eg raw materials, work-in-process, finished goods,
           dealers’ inventories of autos) and equipment, the periodic revaluation
           process must include physical inspection of the collateral.


Section 10: requirements for recognition of leasing
36.141 Leases other than those that expose the bank to residual value risk (see CRE36.142
      below) will be accorded the same treatment as exposures collateralised by the
      same type of collateral. The minimum requirements for the collateral type must
      be met (commercial or residential real estate or other collateral). In addition, the
      bank must also meet the following standards:

       (1) Robust risk management on the part of the lessor with respect to the
           location of the asset, the use to which it is put, its age, and planned
           obsolescence;

       (2) A robust legal framework establishing the lessor’s legal ownership of the
           asset and its ability to exercise its rights as owner in a timely fashion; and

       (3) The difference between the rate of depreciation of the physical asset and the
           rate of amortisation of the lease payments must not be so large as to
           overstate the credit risk mitigation attributed to the leased assets.

36.142 Leases that expose the bank to residual value risk will be treated in the following
      manner. Residual value risk is the bank’s exposure to potential loss due to the fair
      value of the equipment declining below its residual estimate at lease inception.

       (1) The discounted lease payment stream will receive a risk weight appropriate
           for the lessee’s financial strength (PD) and supervisory or own-estimate of
           LGD, whichever is appropriate.

       (2) The residual value will be risk-weighted at 100%.


Section 11: calculation of capital charges for equity exposures

The internal models market-based approach

36.143 To be eligible for the internal models market-based approach a bank must
      demonstrate to its supervisor that it meets certain quantitative and qualitative
      minimum requirements at the outset and on an ongoing basis. A bank that fails
      to demonstrate continued compliance with the minimum requirements must
      develop a plan for rapid return to compliance, obtain its supervisor’s approval of
      the plan, and implement that plan in a timely fashion. In the interim, banks would
      be expected to compute capital charges using a simple risk weight approach.

36.144 The Committee recognises that differences in markets, measurement
      methodologies, equity investments and management practices require banks and
      supervisors to customise their operational procedures. It is not the Committee’s
      intention to dictate the form or operational detail of banks’ risk management
      policies and measurement practices for their banking book equity holdings.
      However, some of the minimum requirements are specific. Each supervisor will
      develop detailed examination procedures to ensure that banks’ risk measurement
      systems and management controls are adequate to serve as the basis for the
      internal models approach.



Capital charge and risk quantification

36.145 The following minimum quantitative standards apply for the purpose of
      calculating minimum capital charges under the internal models approach.

      (1) The capital charge is equivalent to the potential loss on the institution’s
          equity portfolio arising from an assumed instantaneous shock equivalent to
          the 99th percentile, one-tailed confidence interval of the difference between
          quarterly returns and an appropriate risk-free rate computed over a long-
          term sample period.

      (2) The estimated losses should be robust to adverse market movements
          relevant to the long-term risk profile of the institution’s specific holdings.
          The data used to represent return distributions should reflect the longest
          sample period for which data are available and meaningful in representing
          the risk profile of the bank’s specific equity holdings. The data used should
          be sufficient to provide conservative, statistically reliable and robust loss
          estimates that are not based purely on subjective or judgmental
          considerations. Institutions must demonstrate to supervisors that the shock
          employed provides a conservative estimate of potential losses over a
          relevant long-term market or business cycle. Models estimated using data
          not reflecting realistic ranges of long-run experience, including a period of
          reasonably severe declines in equity market values relevant to a bank’s
          holdings, are presumed to produce optimistic results unless there is credible
          evidence of appropriate adjustments built into the model. In the absence of
          built-in adjustments, the bank must combine empirical analysis of available
          data with adjustments based on a variety of factors in order to attain model
          outputs that achieve appropriate realism and conservatism. In constructing
          Value-at-Risk (VaR) models estimating potential quarterly losses, institutions
          may use quarterly data or convert shorter horizon period data to a quarterly
          equivalent using an analytically appropriate method supported by empirical
          evidence. Such adjustments must be applied through a well-developed and
          well-documented thought process and analysis. In general, adjustments
          must be applied conservatively and consistently over time. Furthermore,
          where only limited data are available, or where technical limitations are such
          that estimates from any single method will be of uncertain quality, banks
          must add appropriate margins of conservatism in order to avoid over-
          optimism.


   (3) No particular type of VaR model (eg variance-covariance, historical
         simulation, or Monte Carlo) is prescribed. However, the model used must be
         able to capture adequately all of the material risks embodied in equity
         returns including both the general market risk and specific risk exposure of
         the institution’s equity portfolio. Internal models must adequately explain
         historical price variation, capture both the magnitude and changes in the
         composition of potential concentrations, and be robust to adverse market
         environments. The population of risk exposures represented in the data used
         for estimation must be closely matched to or at least comparable with those
         of the bank’s equity exposures.

     (4) Banks may also use modelling techniques such as historical scenario analysis
         to determine minimum capital requirements for banking book equity
         holdings. The use of such models is conditioned upon the institution
         demonstrating to its supervisor that the methodology and its output can be
         quantified in the form of the loss percentile specified under (1).

     (5) Institutions must use an internal model that is appropriate for the risk profile
         and complexity of their equity portfolio. Institutions with material holdings
         with values that are highly non-linear in nature (eg equity derivatives,
         convertibles) must employ an internal model designed to capture
         appropriately the risks associated with such instruments.

     (6) Subject to supervisory review, equity portfolio correlations can be integrated
         into a bank’s internal risk measures. The use of explicit correlations (eg
         utilisation of a variance/covariance VaR model) must be fully documented
         and supported using empirical analysis. The appropriateness of implicit
         correlation assumptions will be evaluated by supervisors in their review of
         model documentation and estimation techniques.

     (7) Mapping of individual positions to proxies, market indices, and risk factors
         should be plausible, intuitive, and conceptually sound. Mapping techniques
         and processes should be fully documented, and demonstrated with both
         theoretical and empirical evidence to be appropriate for the specific
         holdings. Where professional judgement is combined with quantitative
         techniques in estimating a holding’s return volatility, the judgement must
         take into account the relevant and material information not considered by
         the other techniques utilised.



   (8) Where factor models are used, either single or multi-factor models are
           acceptable depending upon the nature of an institution’s holdings. Banks are
           expected to ensure that the factors are sufficient to capture the risks
           inherent in the equity portfolio. Risk factors should correspond to the
           appropriate equity market characteristics (for example, public, private,
           market capitalisation industry sectors and sub-sectors, operational

           characteristics) in which the bank holds significant positions. While banks will
           have discretion in choosing the factors, they must demonstrate through
           empirical analyses the appropriateness of those factors, including their ability
           to cover both general and specific risk.

       (9) Estimates of the return volatility of equity investments must incorporate
           relevant and material available data, information, and methods. A bank may
           utilise independently reviewed internal data or data from external sources
           (including pooled data). The number of risk exposures in the sample, and the
           data period used for quantification must be sufficient to provide the bank
           with confidence in the accuracy and robustness of its estimates. Institutions
           should take appropriate measures to limit the potential of both sampling
           bias and survivorship bias in estimating return volatilities.

       (10) A rigorous and comprehensive stress-testing programme must be in place.
            Banks are expected to subject their internal model and estimation
            procedures, including volatility computations, to either hypothetical or
            historical scenarios that reflect worst-case losses given underlying positions
            in both public and private equities. At a minimum, stress tests should be
            employed to provide information about the effect of tail events beyond the
            level of confidence assumed in the internal models approach.


Risk management process and controls

36.146 Banks’ overall risk management practices used to manage their banking book
      equity investments are expected to be consistent with the evolving sound
      practice guidelines issued by the Committee and national supervisors. With
      regard to the development and use of internal models for capital purposes,
      institutions must have established policies, procedures, and controls to ensure
      the integrity of the model and modelling process used to derive regulatory
      capital standards. These policies, procedures, and controls should include the
      following:


       (1) Full integration of the internal model into the overall management
           information systems of the institution and in the management of the
           banking book equity portfolio. Internal models should be fully integrated
           into the institution’s risk management infrastructure including use in: (a)
           establishing investment hurdle rates and evaluating alternative investments;
            (b) measuring and assessing equity portfolio performance (including the risk-
            adjusted performance); and (c) allocating economic capital to equity
            holdings and evaluating overall capital adequacy as required the supervisory
            review process (SRP). The institution should be able to demonstrate, through
            for example, investment committee minutes, that internal model output
            plays an essential role in the investment management process.

       (2) Established management systems, procedures, and control functions for
           ensuring the periodic and independent review of all elements of the internal
           modelling process, including approval of model revisions, vetting of model
           inputs, and review of model results, such as direct verification of risk
           computations. Proxy and mapping techniques and other critical model
           components should receive special attention. These reviews should assess
           the accuracy, completeness, and appropriateness of model inputs and results
           and focus on both finding and limiting potential errors associated with
           known weaknesses and identifying unknown model weaknesses. Such
           reviews may be conducted as part of internal or external audit programmes,
           by an independent risk control unit, or by an external third party.

       (3) Adequate systems and procedures for monitoring investment limits and the
           risk exposures of equity investments.

       (4) The units responsible for the design and application of the model must be
           functionally independent from the units responsible for managing individual
           investments.

       (5) Parties responsible for any aspect of the modelling process must be
           adequately qualified. Management must allocate sufficient skilled and
           competent resources to the modelling function.


Validation and documentation

36.147 Institutions employing internal models for regulatory capital purposes are
      expected to have in place a robust system to validate the accuracy and
      consistency of the model and its inputs. They must also fully document all
      material elements of their internal models and modelling process. The modelling
      process itself as well as the systems used to validate internal models including all
      supporting documentation, validation results, and the findings of internal and
      external reviews are subject to oversight and review by the bank’s supervisor.


Validation

36.148 Banks must have a robust system in place to validate the accuracy and
      consistency of their internal models and modelling processes. A bank must
      demonstrate to its supervisor that the internal validation process enables it to
      assess the performance of its internal model and processes consistently and
      meaningfully.

36.149 Banks must regularly compare actual return performance (computed using
      realised and unrealised gains and losses) with modelled estimates and be able to
      demonstrate that such returns are within the expected range for the portfolio and
      individual holdings. Such comparisons must make use of historical data that are
      over as long a period as possible. The methods and data used in such
      comparisons must be clearly documented by the bank. This analysis and
      documentation should be updated at least annually.

36.150 Banks should make use of other quantitative validation tools and comparisons
      with external data sources. The analysis must be based on data that are
      appropriate to the portfolio, are updated regularly, and cover a relevant
      observation period. Banks’ internal assessments of the performance of their own
      model must be based on long data histories, covering a range of economic
      conditions, and ideally one or more complete business cycles.

36.151 Banks must demonstrate that quantitative validation methods and data are
      consistent through time. Changes in estimation methods and data (both data
      sources and periods covered) must be clearly and thoroughly documented.

36.152 Since the evaluation of actual performance to expected performance over time
      provides a basis for banks to refine and adjust internal models on an ongoing
      basis, it is expected that banks using internal models will have established well-
      articulated model review standards. These standards are especially important for
      situations where actual results significantly deviate from expectations and where
      the validity of the internal model is called into question. These standards must
      take account of business cycles and similar systematic variability in equity returns.
      All adjustments made to internal models in response to model reviews must be
      well documented and consistent with the bank’s model review standards.


36.153 To facilitate model validation through backtesting on an ongoing basis,
      institutions using the internal model approach must construct and maintain
      appropriate databases on the actual quarterly performance of their equity
      investments as well on the estimates derived using their internal models.
      Institutions should also backtest the volatility estimates used within their internal
      models and the appropriateness of the proxies used in the model. Supervisors
       may ask banks to scale their quarterly forecasts to a different, in particular
       shorter, time horizon, store performance data for this time horizon and perform
       backtests on this basis.


Documentation

36.154 The burden is on the bank to satisfy its supervisor that a model has good
      predictive power and that regulatory capital requirements will not be distorted as
      a result of its use. Accordingly, all critical elements of an internal model and the
      modelling process should be fully and adequately documented. Banks must
      document in writing their internal model’s design and operational details. The
      documentation should demonstrate banks’ compliance with the minimum
      quantitative and qualitative standards, and should address topics such as the
      application of the model to different segments of the portfolio, estimation
      methodologies, responsibilities of parties involved in the modelling, and the
      model approval and model review processes. In particular, the documentation
      should address the following points:

       (1) A bank must document the rationale for its choice of internal modelling
           methodology and must be able to provide analyses demonstrating that the
           model and modelling procedures are likely to result in estimates that
           meaningfully identify the risk of the bank’s equity holdings. Internal models
           and procedures must be periodically reviewed to determine whether they
           remain fully applicable to the current portfolio and to external conditions. In
           addition, a bank must document a history of major changes in the model
           over time and changes made to the modelling process subsequent to the
           last supervisory review. If changes have been made in response to the bank’s
           internal review standards, the bank must document that these changes are
           consistent with its internal model review standards.


       (2) In documenting their internal models banks should:

           (a) provide a detailed outline of the theory, assumptions and/or
               mathematical and empirical basis of the parameters, variables, and data
               source(s) used to estimate the model;


           (b) establish a rigorous statistical process (including out-of-time and out-of-
               sample performance tests) for validating the selection of explanatory
               variables; and

           (c)   indicate circumstances under which the model does not work effectively.

       (3) Where proxies and mapping are employed, institutions must have performed
           and documented rigorous analysis demonstrating that all chosen proxies
           and mappings are sufficiently representative of the risk of the equity
           holdings to which they correspond. The documentation should show, for
           instance, the relevant and material factors (e.g. business lines, balance sheet
           characteristics, geographic location, company age, industry sector and
           subsector, operating characteristics) used in mapping individual investments
           into proxies. In summary, institutions must demonstrate that the proxies and
           mappings employed:

           (a) are adequately comparable to the underlying holding or portfolio;

           (b) are derived using historical economic and market conditions that are
               relevant and material to the underlying holdings or, where not, that an
               appropriate adjustment has been made; and,

           (c)   are robust estimates of the potential risk of the underlying holding.


Section 12: disclosure requirements
36.155 In order to be eligible for the IRB approach, banks must meet the disclosure
      requirements set out in the disclosure requirements (DIS). These are minimum
      requirements for use of IRB: failure to meet these will render banks ineligible to
      use the relevant IRB approach.


                                 CRE40
                                 Securitisation: general
                                 provisions
                                 This chapter describes the scope, definitions,
                                 operational and due diligence requirements and
                                 structure of capital requirements used to
                                 calculate risk-weighted assets for securitisation
                                 exposures in the banking book.


                                
Scope and definitions of transactions covered under the securitisation
framework
40.1   Banks must apply the securitisation framework for determining regulatory capital
       requirements on exposures arising from traditional and synthetic securitisations
       or similar structures that contain features common to both. Since securitisations
       may be structured in many different ways, the capital treatment of a securitisation
       exposure must be determined on the basis of its economic substance rather than
       its legal form. Similarly, supervisors will look to the economic substance of a
       transaction to determine whether it should be subject to the securitisation
       framework for purposes of determining regulatory capital. Banks are encouraged
       to consult with their national supervisors when there is uncertainty about whether
       a given transaction should be considered a securitisation. For example,
       transactions involving cash flows from real estate (eg rents) may be considered
       specialised lending exposures, if warranted.

40.2   A traditional securitisation is a structure where the cash flow from an underlying
       pool of exposures is used to service at least two different stratified risk positions
       or tranches reflecting different degrees of credit risk. Payments to the investors
       depend upon the performance of the specified underlying exposures, as opposed
       to being derived from an obligation of the entity originating those exposures.
       The stratified/tranched structures that characterise securitisations differ from
       ordinary senior/subordinated debt instruments in that junior securitisation
       tranches can absorb losses without interrupting contractual payments to more
       senior tranches, whereas subordination in a senior/subordinated debt structure is
       a matter of priority of rights to the proceeds of liquidation.

40.3   A synthetic securitisation is a structure with at least two different stratified risk
       positions or tranches that reflect different degrees of credit risk where credit risk
       of an underlying pool of exposures is transferred, in whole or in part, through the
       use of funded (eg credit-linked notes) or unfunded (eg credit default swaps)
       credit derivatives or guarantees that serve to hedge the credit risk of the
       portfolio. Accordingly, the investors’ potential risk is dependent upon the
       performance of the underlying pool.

40.4   Banks’ exposures to a securitisation are hereafter referred to as “securitisation
       exposures”. Securitisation exposures can include but are not restricted to the
       following: asset-backed securities, mortgage-backed securities, credit
       enhancements, liquidity facilities, interest rate or currency swaps, credit
       derivatives and tranched cover as described in CRE22.93. Reserve accounts, such
       as cash collateral accounts, recorded as an asset by the originating bank must
       also be treated as securitisation exposures.



40.5
       A resecuritisation exposure is a securitisation exposure in which the risk
       associated with an underlying pool of exposures is tranched and at least one of
       the underlying exposures is a securitisation exposure. In addition, an exposure to
       one or more resecuritisation exposures is a resecuritisation exposure. An
       exposure resulting from retranching of a securitisation exposure is not a
       resecuritisation exposure if the bank is able to demonstrate that the cash flows to
       and from the bank could be replicated in all circumstances and conditions by an
       exposure to the securitisation of a pool of assets that contains no securitisation
       exposures.

40.6   Underlying instruments in the pool being securitised may include but are not
       restricted to the following: loans, commitments, asset-backed and mortgage-
       backed securities, corporate bonds, equity securities, and private equity
       investments. The underlying pool may include one or more exposures.


Definitions and general terminology
40.7   For risk-based capital purposes, a bank is considered to be an originator with
       regard to a certain securitisation if it meets either of the following conditions:

       (1) the bank originates directly or indirectly underlying exposures included in
           the securitisation; or

       (2) the bank serves as a sponsor of an asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP)
           conduit or similar programme that acquires exposures from third-party
           entities. In the context of such programmes, a bank would generally be
           considered a sponsor and, in turn, an originator if it, in fact or in substance,
           manages or advises the programme, places securities into the market, or
           provides liquidity and/or credit enhancements.

40.8   An ABCP programme predominantly issues commercial paper to third-party
       investors with an original maturity of one year or less and is backed by assets or
       other exposures held in a bankruptcy-remote, special purpose entity.

40.9   A clean-up call is an option that permits the securitisation exposures (eg asset-
       backed securities) to be called before all of the underlying exposures or
       securitisation exposures have been repaid. In the case of traditional
       securitisations, this is generally accomplished by repurchasing the remaining
       securitisation exposures once the pool balance or outstanding securities have
       fallen below some specified level. In the case of a synthetic transaction, the clean-
       up call may take the form of a clause that extinguishes the credit protection.


40.10

        A credit enhancement is a contractual arrangement in which the bank or other
        entity retains or assumes a securitisation exposure and, in substance, provides
        some degree of added protection to other parties to the transaction.

40.11 A credit-enhancing interest-only strip (I/O) is an on-balance sheet asset that

        (1) represents a valuation of cash flows related to future margin income, and

        (2) is subordinated.

40.12 An early amortisation provision is a mechanism that, once triggered, accelerates
      the reduction of the investor’s interest in underlying exposures of a securitisation
      of revolving credit facilities and allows investors to be paid out prior to the
      originally stated maturity of the securities issued. A securitisation of revolving
      credit facilities is a securitisation in which one or more underlying exposures
      represent, directly or indirectly, current or future draws on a revolving credit
      facility. Examples of revolving credit facilities include but are not limited to credit
      card exposures, home equity lines of credit, commercial lines of credit, and other
      lines of credit.

40.13 Excess spread (or future margin income) is defined as gross finance charge
      collections and other income received by the trust or special purpose entity (SPE,
      as defined below) minus certificate interest, servicing fees, charge-offs, and other
      senior trust or SPE expenses.

40.14 Implicit support arises when a bank provides support to a securitisation in excess
      of its predetermined contractual obligation.



40.15 For risk-based capital purposes, an internal ratings-based (IRB) pool means a
      securitisation pool for which a bank is able to use an IRB approach to calculate
      capital requirements for all underlying exposures given that it has approval to
      apply IRB for the type of underlying exposures and it has sufficient information to
      calculate IRB capital requirements for these exposures. Supervisors should expect
      that a bank with supervisory approval to calculate capital requirements for the
      type of underlying exposures be able to obtain sufficient information to estimate
      capital requirements for the underlying pool of exposures using an IRB approach.
      A bank which has a supervisory-approved IRB approach for the entire pool of
      exposures underlying a given securitisation exposure that cannot estimate capital
      requirements for all underlying exposures using an IRB approach would be
      expected to demonstrate to its supervisor why it is unable to do so. However, a
      supervisor may prohibit a bank from treating an IRB pool as such in the case of
      particular structures or transactions, including transactions with highly complex
      loss allocations, tranches whose credit enhancement could be eroded for reasons
      other than portfolio losses, and tranches of portfolios with high internal
      correlations (such as portfolios with high exposure to single sectors or with high
      geographical concentration).

40.16 For risk-based capital purposes, a mixed pool means a securitisation pool for
      which a bank is able to calculate IRB parameters for some, but not all, underlying
      exposures in a securitisation.

40.17 For risk-based capital purposes, a standardised approach (SA) pool means a
      securitisation pool for which a bank does not have approval to calculate IRB
      parameters for any underlying exposures; or for which, while the bank has
      approval to calculate IRB parameters for some or all of the types of underlying
      exposures, it is unable to calculate IRB parameters for any underlying exposures
      because of lack of relevant data, or is prohibited by its supervisor from treating
      the pool as an IRB pool pursuant to CRE40.15.

40.18 A securitisation exposure (tranche) is considered to be a senior exposure
      (tranche) if it is effectively backed or secured by a first claim on the entire amount
      of the assets in the underlying securitised pool. While this generally includes
      only the most senior position within a securitisation transaction, in some
      instances there may be other claims that, in a technical sense, may be more
      senior in the waterfall (eg a swap claim) but may be disregarded for the purpose
      of determining which positions are treated as senior. Different maturities of
      several senior tranches that share pro rata loss allocation shall have no effect on
      the seniority of these tranches, since they benefit from the same level of credit
      enhancement. The material effects of differing tranche maturities are captured by
      maturity adjustments on the risk weights to be assigned to the securitisation
      exposures. For example:

      (1) In a typical synthetic securitisation, an unrated tranche would be treated as a
          senior tranche, provided that all of the conditions for inferring a rating from
          a lower tranche that meets the definition of a senior tranche are fulfilled.

      (2) In a traditional securitisation where all tranches above the first-loss piece are
          rated, the most highly rated position would be treated as a senior tranche.
          When there are several tranches that share the same rating, only the most
          senior tranche in the cash flow waterfall would be treated as senior (unless
          the only difference among them is the effective maturity). Also, when the
          different ratings of several senior tranches only result from a difference in
          maturity, all of these tranches should be treated as a senior tranche.

      (3) Usually, a liquidity facility supporting an ABCP programme would not be the
          most senior position within the programme; the commercial paper, which
          benefits from the liquidity support, typically would be the most senior
          position. However, a liquidity facility may be viewed as covering all losses on
          the underlying receivables pool that exceed the amount of
          overcollateralisation/reserves provided by the seller and as being most
          senior if it is sized to cover all of the outstanding commercial paper and
          other senior debt supported by the pool, so that no cash flows from the
          underlying pool could be transferred to the other creditors until any liquidity
          draws were repaid in full. In such a case, the liquidity facility can be treated
          as a senior exposure. Otherwise, if these conditions are not satisfied, or if for
          other reasons the liquidity facility constitutes a mezzanine position in
          economic substance rather than a senior position in the underlying pool, the
          liquidity facility should be treated as a non-senior exposure.


If a senior tranche is retranched or partially hedged (ie not on a pro
                  rata basis), only the new senior part would be treated as senior for
                  capital purposes.


40.19 For risk-based capital purposes, the exposure amount of a securitisation exposure
      is the sum of the on-balance sheet amount of the exposure, or carrying value –
      which takes into account purchase discounts and writedowns/specific provisions
      the bank took on this securitisation exposure – and the off-balance sheet
      exposure amount, where applicable.

40.20 A bank must measure the exposure amount of its off-balance sheet securitisation
      exposures as follows:




       (1) for credit risk mitigants sold or purchased by the bank, use the treatment set
           out in CRE40.56 to CRE40.62;

       (2) for facilities that are not credit risk mitigants, use a credit conversion factor
           (CCF) of 100%. If contractually provided for, servicers may advance cash to
           ensure an uninterrupted flow of payments to investors so long as the
           servicer is entitled to full reimbursement and this right is senior to other
           claims on cash flows from the underlying pool of exposures. At national
           discretion, the undrawn portion of servicer cash advances or facilities that are
           unconditionally cancellable without prior notice may receive the CCF for
           unconditionally cancellable commitments under CRE20. For this purpose, a
           national supervisor that uses this discretion must develop an appropriately
           conservative method for measuring the amount of the undrawn portion; and

       (3) for derivatives contracts other than credit risk derivatives contracts, such as
           interest rate or currency swaps sold or purchased by the bank, use the
           measurement approach set out in CRE51.

40.21 An SPE is a corporation, trust or other entity organised for a specific purpose, the
      activities of which are limited to those appropriate to accomplish the purpose of
      the SPE, and the structure of which is intended to isolate the SPE from the credit
      risk of an originator or seller of exposures. SPEs, normally a trust or similar entity,
      are commonly used as financing vehicles in which exposures are sold to the SPE
      in exchange for cash or other assets funded by debt issued by the trust.

40.22 For risk-based capital purposes, tranche maturity (MT) is the tranche’s remaining
       effective maturity in years and can be measured at the bank’s discretion in either
       of the following manners. In all cases, MT will have a floor of one year and a cap
       of five years.

       (1) As the euro weighted-average maturity of the contractual cash flows of the
           tranche, as expressed below, where CFt denotes the cash flows (principal,
            interest payments and fees) contractually payable by the borrower in period
            t. The contractual payments must be unconditional and must not be
            dependent on the actual performance of the securitised assets. If such
            unconditional contractual payment dates are not available, the final legal
            maturity shall be used.

       (2) On the basis of final legal maturity of the tranche, where ML is the final legal
            maturity of the tranche.


The euro designation is used for illustrative purposes only.


40.23 When determining the maturity of a securitisation exposure, banks should take
      into account the maximum period of time they are exposed to potential losses
      from the securitised assets. In cases where a bank provides a commitment, the
      bank should calculate the maturity of the securitisation exposure resulting from
      this commitment as the sum of the contractual maturity of the commitment and
      the longest maturity of the asset(s) to which the bank would be exposed after a
      draw has occurred. If those assets are revolving, the longest contractually
      possible remaining maturity of the asset that might be added during the
      revolving period would apply, rather than the (longest) maturity of the assets
      currently in the pool. The same treatment applies to all other instruments where
      the risk of the commitment/protection provider is not limited to losses realised
      until the maturity of that instrument (eg total return swaps). For credit protection
      instruments that are only exposed to losses that occur up to the maturity of that
      instrument, a bank would be allowed to apply the contractual maturity of the
      instrument and would not have to look through to the protected position.


Operational requirements for the recognition of risk transference
40.24 An originating bank may exclude underlying exposures from the calculation of
      risk-weighted assets only if all of the following conditions have been met. Banks
      meeting these conditions must still hold regulatory capital against any
      securitisation exposures they retain.

       (1) Significant credit risk associated with the underlying exposures has been
           transferred to third parties.




     (2) The transferor does not maintain effective or indirect control over the
         transferred exposures. The exposures are legally isolated from the transferor
         in such a way (eg through the sale of assets or through subparticipation) that
         the exposures are put beyond the reach of the transferor and its creditors,
         even in bankruptcy or receivership. Banks should obtain legal opinion that
         confirms true sale. The transferor’s retention of servicing rights to the



         exposures will not necessarily constitute indirect control of the exposures.
         The transferor is deemed to have maintained effective control over the
         transferred credit risk exposures if it:

         (a) is able to repurchase from the transferee the previously transferred
             exposures in order to realise their benefits; or

         (b) is obligated to retain the risk of the transferred exposures.

     (3) The securities issued are not obligations of the transferor. Thus, investors
         who purchase the securities only have claim to the underlying exposures.

     (4) The transferee is an SPE and the holders of the beneficial interests in that
         entity have the right to pledge or exchange them without restriction, unless
         such restriction is imposed by a risk retention requirement.

     (5) Clean-up calls must satisfy the conditions set out in CRE40.28.

     (6) The securitisation does not contain clauses that

         (a) require the originating bank to alter the underlying exposures such that
             the pool’s credit quality is improved unless this is achieved by selling
             exposures to independent and unaffiliated third parties at market prices;

         (b) allow for increases in a retained first-loss position or credit
             enhancement provided by the originating bank after the transaction’s
             inception; or

         (c)   increase the yield payable to parties other than the originating bank,
               such as investors and third-party providers of credit enhancements, in
               response to a deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying pool.

     (7) There must be no termination options/triggers except eligible clean-up calls,
         termination for specific changes in tax and regulation or early amortisation
         provisions such as those set out in CRE40.27.



 Legal opinion is not limited to legal advice from qualified legal counsel,
                   but allows written advice from in-house lawyers.


40.25 For synthetic securitisations, the use of credit risk mitigation (CRM) techniques (ie
      collateral, guarantees and credit derivatives) for hedging the underlying exposure
      may be recognised for risk-based capital purposes only if the conditions outlined
      below are satisfied:

       (1) Credit risk mitigants must comply with the requirements set out in CRE22.

       (2) Eligible collateral is limited to that specified in CRE22.37 and CRE22.39.
           Eligible collateral pledged by SPEs may be recognised.

       (3) Eligible guarantors are defined in CRE22.90. Banks may not recognise SPEs as
           eligible guarantors in the securitisation framework.

       (4) Banks must transfer significant credit risk associated with the underlying
           exposures to third parties.


       (5) The instruments used to transfer credit risk may not contain terms or
           conditions that limit the amount of credit risk transferred, such as those
           provided below:

           (a) clauses that materially limit the credit protection or credit risk
               transference (eg an early amortisation provision in a securitisation of
               revolving credit facilities that effectively subordinates the bank’s
               interest; significant materiality thresholds below which credit protection
               is deemed not to be triggered even if a credit event occurs; or clauses
               that allow for the termination of the protection due to deterioration in
               the credit quality of the underlying exposures);

           (b) clauses that require the originating bank to alter the underlying
               exposures to improve the pool’s average credit quality;

           (c)   clauses that increase the banks’ cost of credit protection in response to
                 deterioration in the pool’s quality;

           (d) clauses that increase the yield payable to parties other than the
               originating bank, such as investors and third-party providers of credit
               enhancements, in response to a deterioration in the credit quality of the
               reference pool; and

           (e) clauses that provide for increases in a retained first-loss position or
               credit enhancement provided by the originating bank after the
               transaction’s inception.

       (6) A bank should obtain legal opinion that confirms the enforceability of the
           contract.

       (7) Clean-up calls must satisfy the conditions set out in CRE40.28.

40.26 A securitisation transaction is deemed to fail the operational requirements set out
      in CRE40.24 or CRE40.25 if the bank

       (1) originates/sponsors a securitisation transaction that includes one or more
           revolving credit facilities, and




       (2) the securitisation transaction incorporates an early amortisation or similar
           provision that, if triggered, would

           (a) subordinate the bank’s senior or pari passu interest in the underlying
               revolving credit facilities to the interest of other investors;

           (b) subordinate the bank’s subordinated interest to an even greater degree
               relative to the interests of other parties; or


           (c)   in other ways increases the bank’s exposure to losses associated with
                 the underlying revolving credit facilities.

40.27 If a securitisation transaction contains one of the following examples of an early
      amortisation provision and meets the operational requirements set forth in CRE40.
      24 or CRE40.25, an originating bank may exclude the underlying exposures
      associated with such a transaction from the calculation of risk-weighted assets,
      but must still hold regulatory capital against any securitisation exposures they
      retain in connection with the transaction:

       (1) replenishment structures where the underlying exposures do not revolve and
           the early amortisation ends the ability of the bank to add new exposures;

       (2) transactions of revolving credit facilities containing early amortisation
           features that mimic term structures (ie where the risk on the underlying
           revolving credit facilities does not return to the originating bank) and where
           the early amortisation provision in a securitisation of revolving credit
           facilities does not effectively result in subordination of the originator’s
           interest;

       (3) structures where a bank securitises one or more revolving credit facilities and
           where investors remain fully exposed to future drawdowns by borrowers
           even after an early amortisation event has occurred; or

       (4) the early amortisation provision is solely triggered by events not related to
           the performance of the underlying assets or the selling bank, such as
           material changes in tax laws or regulations.

40.28 For securitisation transactions that include a clean-up call, no capital will be
      required due to the presence of a clean-up call if the following conditions are
      met:

       (1) the exercise of the clean-up call must not be mandatory, in form or in
           substance, but rather must be at the discretion of the originating bank;

       (2) the clean-up call must not be structured to avoid allocating losses to credit
           enhancements or positions held by investors or otherwise structured to
           provide credit enhancement; and

       (3) the clean-up call must only be exercisable when 10% or less of the original
           underlying portfolio or securities issued remains, or, for synthetic
           securitisations, when 10% or less of the original reference portfolio value
           remains.

40.29 Securitisation transactions that include a clean-up call that does not meet all of
      the criteria stated in CRE40.28 result in a capital requirement for the originating
      bank. For a traditional securitisation, the underlying exposures must be treated as
      if they were not securitised. Additionally, banks must not recognise in regulatory
      capital any gain on sale, in accordance with CAP30.14. For synthetic
      securitisations, the bank purchasing protection must hold capital against the
      entire amount of the securitised exposures as if they did not benefit from any
      credit protection. If a synthetic securitisation incorporates a call (other than a
      clean-up call) that effectively terminates the transaction and the purchased credit
      protection on a specific date, the bank must treat the transaction in accordance
      with CRE40.65.

40.30 If a clean-up call, when exercised, is found to serve as a credit enhancement, the
      exercise of the clean-up call must be considered a form of implicit support
      provided by the bank and must be treated in accordance with the supervisory
      guidance pertaining to securitisation transactions.


Due diligence requirements
40.31 For a bank to use the risk weight approaches of the securitisation framework, it
      must have the information specified in CRE40.32 to CRE40.34. Otherwise, the
      bank must assign a 1250% risk weight to any securitisation exposure for which it
      cannot perform the required level of due diligence.

40.32 As a general rule, a bank must, on an ongoing basis, have a comprehensive
      understanding of the risk characteristics of its individual securitisation exposures,
      whether on- or off-balance sheet, as well as the risk characteristics of the pools
      underlying its securitisation exposures.


40.33 Banks must be able to access performance information on the underlying pools
      on an ongoing basis in a timely manner. Such information may include, as
      appropriate: exposure type; percentage of loans 30, 60 and 90 days past due;
      default rates; prepayment rates; loans in foreclosure; property type; occupancy;

       average credit score or other measures of creditworthiness; average loan-to-
       value ratio; and industry and geographical diversification. For resecuritisations,
       banks should have information not only on the underlying securitisation tranches,
       such as the issuer name and credit quality, but also on the characteristics and
       performance of the pools underlying the securitisation tranches.

40.34 A bank must have a thorough understanding of all structural features of a
      securitisation transaction that would materially impact the performance of the
      bank’s exposures to the transaction, such as the contractual waterfall and
      waterfall-related triggers, credit enhancements, liquidity enhancements, market
      value triggers, and deal-specific definitions of default.


Calculation of capital requirements and risk-weighted assets
40.35 Regulatory capital is required for banks’ securitisation exposures, including those
      arising from the provision of credit risk mitigants to a securitisation transaction,
      investments in asset-backed securities, retention of a subordinated tranche, and
      extension of a liquidity facility or credit enhancement, as set forth in the following
      sections. Repurchased securitisation exposures must be treated as retained
      securitisation exposures.

40.36 For the purposes of the expected loss (EL) provision calculation set out in CRE35,
      securitisation exposures do not contribute to the EL amount. Similarly, neither
      general nor specific provisions against securitisation exposures or underlying
      assets still held on the balance sheet of the originator are to be included in the
      measurement of eligible provisions. However, originator banks can offset 1250%
      risk-weighted securitisation exposures by reducing the securitisation exposure
      amount by the amount of their specific provisions on underlying assets of that
      transaction and non-refundable purchase price discounts on such underlying
      assets. Specific provisions on securitisation exposures will be taken into account
      in the calculation of the exposure amount, as defined in CRE40.19 and CRE40.20.
      General provisions on underlying securitised exposures are not to be taken into
      account in any calculation.

40.37 The risk-weighted asset amount of a securitisation exposure is computed by
      multiplying the exposure amount by the appropriate risk weight determined in
      accordance with the hierarchy of approaches in CRE40.41 to CRE40.48. Risk
      weight caps for senior exposures in accordance with CRE40.50 and CRE40.51 or
      overall caps in accordance with CRE40.52 to CRE40.55 may apply. Overlapping
      exposures will be risk-weighted as defined in CRE40.38 and CRE40.40.

40.38 For the purposes of calculating capital requirements, a bank’s exposure A
      overlaps another exposure B if in all circumstances the bank will preclude any loss
      for the bank on exposure B by fulfilling its obligations with respect to exposure A.
      For example, if a bank provides full credit support to some notes and holds a
      portion of these notes, its full credit support obligation precludes any loss from
      its exposure to the notes. If a bank can verify that fulfilling its obligations with
      respect to exposure A will preclude a loss from its exposure to B under any
      circumstance, the bank does not need to calculate risk-weighted assets for its
      exposure B.

40.39 To arrive at an overlap, a bank may, for the purposes of calculating capital
      requirements, split or expand its exposures. For example, a liquidity facility may
      not be contractually required to cover defaulted assets or may not fund an ABCP
      programme in certain circumstances. For capital purposes, such a situation would
      not be regarded as an overlap to the notes issued by that ABCP conduit.
      However, the bank may calculate risk-weighted assets for the liquidity facility as if
      it were expanded (either in order to cover defaulted assets or in terms of trigger
      events) to preclude all losses on the notes. In such a case, the bank would only
      need to calculate capital requirements on the liquidity facility


That is, splitting exposures into portions that overlap with another
                   exposure held by the bank and other portions that do not overlap; and
                   expanding exposures by assuming for capital purposes that obligations
                   with respect to one of the overlapping exposures are larger than those
                   established contractually. The latter could be done, for instance, by
                   expanding either the trigger events to exercise the facility and/or the
                   extent of the obligation.


40.40 Overlap could also be recognised between relevant capital charges for exposures
      in the trading book and capital charges for exposures in the banking book,
      provided that the bank is able to calculate and compare the capital charges for
      the relevant exposures.


40.41 Securitisation exposures will be treated differently depending on the type of
      underlying exposures and/or on the type of information available to the bank.

       Securitisation exposures to which none of the approaches laid out in CRE40.42 to
       CRE40.48 can be applied must be assigned a 1250% risk weight.

40.42 A bank must use the Securitisation Internal Ratings-Based Approach (SEC-IRBA)
      as described in CRE44 for a securitisation exposure of an IRB pool as defined in
      CRE40.15, unless otherwise determined by the supervisor.

40.43 If a bank cannot use the SEC-IRBA, it must use the Securitisation External Ratings-
      Based Approach (SEC-ERBA) as described in CRE42.1 to CRE42.7 for a
      securitisation exposure to an SA pool as defined in CRE40.17 provided that

       (1) the bank is located in a jurisdiction that permits use of the SEC-ERBA and

       (2) the exposure has an external credit assessment that meets the operational
           requirements for an external credit assessment in CRE42.8, or there is an
           inferred rating that meets the operational requirements for inferred ratings
           in CRE42.9 and CRE42.10.

40.44 A bank that is located in a jurisdiction that permits use of the SEC-ERBA may use
      an Internal Assessment Approach (SEC-IAA) as described in CRE43.1 to CRE43.4
      for an unrated securitisation exposure (eg liquidity facilities and credit
      enhancements) to an SA pool within an ABCP programme. In order to use an SEC-
      IAA, a bank must have supervisory approval to use the IRB approach for non-
      securitisation exposures. A bank should consult with its national supervisor on
      whether and when it can apply the SEC-IAA to its securitisation exposures,
      especially where the bank can apply the IRB for some, but not all, underlying
      exposures. To ensure appropriate capital levels, there may be instances where the
      supervisor requires a treatment other than this general rule.

40.45 A bank that cannot use the SEC-ERBA or an SEC-IAA for its exposure to an SA
      pool may use the Standardised Approach (SEC-SA) as described in CRE41.1 to
      CRE41.15.

40.46 Securitisation exposures of mixed pools: where a bank can calculate KIRB on at
       least 95% of the underlying exposure amounts of a securitisation, the bank must
       apply the SEC-IRBA calculating the capital charge for the underlying pool as
       follows, where d is the percentage of the exposure amount of underlying
       exposures for which the bank can calculate KIRB over the exposure amount of all
       underlying exposures; and KIRB and KSA are as defined in CRE44.2 to CRE44.5 and
       CRE41.2 to CRE41.4, respectively:

40.47 Where the bank cannot calculate KIRB on at least 95% of the underlying
       exposures, the bank must use the hierarchy for securitisation exposures of SA
       pools as set out in CRE40.43 to CRE40.45.

40.48 For resecuritisation exposures, banks must apply the SEC-SA, with the
      adjustments in CRE41.16.

40.49 When a bank provides implicit support to a securitisation, it must, at a minimum,
      hold capital against all of the underlying exposures associated with the
      securitisation transaction as if they had not been securitised. Additionally, banks
      would not be permitted to recognise in regulatory capital any gain on sale, in
      accordance with CAP30.14.


Caps for securitisation exposures
40.50 Banks may apply a “look-through” approach to senior securitisation exposures,
      whereby the senior securitisation exposure could receive a maximum risk weight
      equal to the exposure weighted-average risk weight applicable to the underlying
      exposures, provided that the bank has knowledge of the composition of the
      underlying exposures at all times. The applicable risk weight under the IRB
      framework would be calculated taking into account the application of the 1.06
      scaling factor pursuant to CRE30.4, and would also be inclusive of the expected
      loss portion multiplied by 12.5. In particular:

       (1) In the case of pools where the bank uses exclusively the SA or the IRB
           approach, the risk weight cap for senior exposures would equal the exposure
           weighted-average risk weight that would apply to the underlying exposures
           under the SA or IRB framework, respectively.

       (2) In the case of mixed pools, when applying the SEC-IRBA, the SA part of the
           underlying pool would receive the corresponding SA risk weight, while the
           IRB portion would receive IRB risk weights. When applying the SEC-SA or the
           SEC-ERBA, the risk weight cap for senior exposures would be based on the
           SA exposure weighted-average risk weight of the underlying assets, whether
           or not they are originally IRB.

40.51 Where the risk weight cap results in a lower risk weight than the floor risk weight
      of 15%, the risk weight resulting from the cap should be used.
40.52 A bank (originator, sponsor or investors) using the SEC-IRBA for a securitisation
      exposure may apply a maximum capital requirement for the securitisation
      exposures it holds equal to the IRB capital requirement (including the expected
      loss portion and the scaling factor of 1.06 for the unexpected loss portion) that
      would have been assessed against the underlying exposures had they not been
      securitised and treated under the appropriate sections of CRE30 to CRE36. In the
      case of mixed pools, the overall cap should be calculated by adding up the
      capital before securitisation; that is, by adding up the capital required under the
      general credit risk framework for the IRB and for the SA part of the underlying
      pool.

40.53 An originating or sponsor bank using the SEC-ERBA or SEC-SA for a securitisation
      exposure may apply a maximum capital requirement for the securitisation
      exposures it holds equal to the capital requirement that would have been
      assessed against the underlying exposures had they not been securitised. In the
      case of mixed pools, the overall cap should be calculated by adding up the
      capital before securitisation; that is, by adding up the capital required under the
      general credit risk framework for the IRB and for the SA part of the underlying
      pool, respectively. The IRB part of the capital requirement includes the expected
      loss portion and the scaling factor of 1.06 of the unexpected loss portion.

40.54 The maximum aggregated capital requirement for a bank's securitisation
      exposures in the same transaction will be equal to KP * P. In order to apply a
       maximum capital charge to a bank's securitisation exposure, a bank will need the
       following inputs:

       (1) The largest proportion of interest that the bank holds for each tranche of a
           given pool (P). In particular:

           (a) For a bank that has one or more securitisation exposure(s) that reside in
               a single tranche of a given pool, P equals the proportion (expressed as a
               percentage) of securitisation exposure(s) that the bank holds in that
               given tranche (calculated as the total nominal amount of the bank's
               securitisation exposure(s) in the tranche) divided by the nominal
               amount of the tranche.

           (b) For a bank that has securitisation exposures that reside in different
               tranches of a given securitisation, P equals the maximum proportion of
               interest across tranches, where the proportion of interest for each of the
               different tranches should be calculated as described above.


       (2) Capital charge for underlying pool (KP):

           (a) For an IRB pool, KP equals KIRB as defined in CRE44.2 to CRE44.13.


           (b) For an SA pool, KP equals KSA as defined in CRE41.2 to CRE41.5.

           (c)   For a mixed pool, KP equals the exposure-weighted average capital
                 charge of the underlying pool using KSA for the proportion of the
                 underlying pool for which the bank cannot calculate KIRB, and KIRB for
                 the proportion of the underlying pool for which a bank can calculate KIRB
                 .

40.55 In applying the capital charge cap, the entire amount of any gain on sale and
      credit-enhancing interest-only strips arising from the securitisation transaction
      must be deducted in accordance with CAP30.14.


Treatment of credit risk mitigation for securitisation exposures
40.56 A bank may recognise credit protection purchased on a securitisation exposure
      when calculating capital requirements subject to the following:

       (1) collateral recognition is limited to that permitted under the credit risk
           mitigation framework – in particular, CRE22.37 and CRE22.39 when the bank
           applies the SEC-ERBA or SEC-SA, and CRE32.7 when the bank applies the
           SEC-IRBA. Collateral pledged by SPEs may be recognised;

       (2) credit protection provided by the entities listed in CRE22.90 may be
           recognised. SPEs cannot be recognised as eligible guarantors; and

       (3) where guarantees or credit derivatives fulfil the minimum operational
           conditions as specified in CRE22.84 to CRE22.89, banks can take account of
           such credit protection in calculating capital requirements for securitisation
           exposures.

40.57 When a bank provides full (or pro rata) credit protection to a securitisation
      exposure, the bank must calculate its capital requirements as if it directly holds
      the portion of the securitisation exposure on which it has provided credit
      protection (in accordance with the definition of tranche maturity given in CRE40.
      22 and CRE40.23).




40.58 Provided that the conditions set out in CRE40.56 are met, the bank buying full (or
      pro rata) credit protection may recognise the credit risk mitigation on the
      securitisation exposure in accordance with the CRM framework.

40.59 In the case of tranched credit protection, the original securitisation tranche will be
      decomposed into protected and unprotected sub-tranches:

       (1) The protection provider must calculate its capital requirement as if directly
           exposed to the particular sub-tranche of the securitisation exposure on
           which it is providing protection, and as determined by the hierarchy of
           approaches for securitisation exposures and according to CRE40.60 to CRE40.
           62.

       (2) Provided that the conditions set out in CRE40.56 are met, the protection
           buyer may recognise tranched protection on the securitisation exposure. In
           doing so, it must calculate capital requirements for each sub-tranche
           separately and as follows:

            (a) For the resulting unprotected exposure(s), capital requirements will be
                calculated as determined by the hierarchy of approaches for
                securitisation exposures and according to CRE40.60 to CRE40.62.

            (b) For the guaranteed/protected portion, capital requirements will be
                calculated according to the applicable CRM framework (in accordance
                with the definition of tranche maturity given in CRE40.22 and CRE40.23).

 The envisioned decomposition is theoretical and it should not be
                   viewed as a new securitisation transaction. The resulting subtranches
                   should not be considered resecuritisations solely due to the presence of
                   the credit protection.


40.60 If, according to the hierarchy of approaches determined by CRE40.41 to CRE40.48
      , the bank must use the SEC-IRBA or SEC-SA, the parameters A and D should be
      calculated separately for each of the subtranches as if the latter would have been
      directly issued as separate tranches at the inception of the transaction. The value
      for KIRB (respectively KSA) will be computed on the underlying portfolio of the
       original transaction.

40.61 If, according to the hierarchy of approaches determined by CRE40.41 to CRE40.48
      , the bank must use the SEC-ERBA for the original securitisation exposure, the
      relevant risk weights for the different subtranches will be calculated subject to the
      following:




       (1) For the sub-tranche of highest priority, the bank will use the risk weight of
           the original securitisation exposure.

       (2) For a sub-tranche of lower priority:

            (a) Banks must infer a rating from one of the subordinated tranches in the
                original transaction. The risk weight of the sub-tranche of lower priority
                will be then determined by applying the inferred rating to the SEC-
                ERBA. Thickness input T will be computed for the sub-tranche of lower
                priority only.

            (b) Should it not be possible to infer a rating the risk weight for the sub-
                tranche of lower priority will be computed using the SEC-SA applying
                the adjustments to the determination of A and D described in CRE40.60.
                The risk weight for this sub-tranche will be obtained as the greater of

                (i)     the risk weight determined through the application of the SEC-SA
                        with the adjusted A, D points and

                (ii) the SEC-ERBA risk weight of the original securitisation exposure
                     prior to recognition of protection.


‘Sub-tranche of highest priority’ only describes the relative priority of
                      the decomposed tranche. The calculation of the risk weight of each sub-
                      tranche is independent from the question if this sub-tranche is
                      protected (ie risk is taken by the protection provider) or is unprotected
                      (ie risk is taken by the protection buyer).


40.62 Under all approaches, a lower-priority sub-tranche must be treated as a non-
      senior securitisation exposure even if the original securitisation exposure prior to
      protection qualifies as senior as defined in CRE40.18.

40.63 A maturity mismatch exists when the residual maturity of a hedge is less than that
      of the underlying exposure.

40.64 When protection is bought on a securitisation exposure(s), for the purpose of
      setting regulatory capital against a maturity mismatch, the capital requirement
      will be determined in accordance with CRE22.97 to CRE22.100. When the
      exposures being hedged have different maturities, the longest maturity must be
      used.
40.65 When protection is bought on the securitised assets, maturity mismatches may
      arise in the context of synthetic securitisations (when, for example, a bank uses
       credit derivatives to transfer part or all of the credit risk of a specific pool of
       assets to third parties). When the credit derivatives unwind, the transaction will
       terminate. This implies that the effective maturity of all the tranches of the
       synthetic securitisation may differ from that of the underlying exposures. Banks
       that synthetically securitise exposures held on their balance sheet by purchasing
       tranched credit protection must treat such maturity mismatches in the following
       manner: For securitisation exposures that are assigned a risk weight of 1250%,
       maturity mismatches are not taken into account. For all other securitisation
       exposures, the bank must apply the maturity mismatch treatment set forth in
       CRE22.97 to CRE22.100. When the exposures being hedged have different
       maturities, the longest maturity must be used.


Simple, transparent and comparable securitisations: scope of and
conditions for alternative treatment
40.66 Only traditional securitisations including exposures to ABCP conduits and
      exposures to transactions financed by ABCP conduits fall within the scope of the
      simple, transparent and comparable (STC) framework. Exposures to securitisations
      that are STC-compliant can be subject to alternative capital treatment as
      determined by CRE41.20 to CRE41.22, CRE42.11 to CRE42.14 and CRE44.27 to
      CRE44.29.

40.67 For regulatory capital purposes, the following will be considered STC-compliant:

       (1) Exposures to non-ABCP, traditional securitisations that meet the criteria in
           CRE40.72 to CRE40.95; and

       (2) Exposures to ABCP conduits and/or transactions financed by ABCP conduits,
           where the conduit and/or transactions financed by it meet the criteria in
           CRE40.96 to CRE40.165.

40.68 The originator/sponsor must disclose to investors all necessary information at the
      transaction level to allow investors to determine whether the securitisation is STC-
      compliant. Based on the information provided by the originator/sponsor, the
      investor must make its own assessment of the securitisation‘s STC compliance
      status as defined in CRE40.67 before applying the alternative capital treatment.

40.69 For retained positions where the originator has achieved significant risk transfer
      in accordance with CRE40.24, the determination shall be made only by the
      originator retaining the position.




40.70 STC criteria need to be met at all times. Checking the compliance with some of
      the criteria might only be necessary at origination (or at the time of initiating the
      exposure, in case of guarantees or liquidity facilities) to an STC securitisation.
      Notwithstanding, investors and holders of the securitisation positions are
      expected to take into account developments that may invalidate the previous
      compliance assessment, for example deficiencies in the frequency and content of
      the investor reports, in the alignment of interest, or changes in the transaction
      documentation at variance with relevant STC criteria.

40.71 In cases where the criteria refer to underlying assets – including, but not limited
      to CRE40.94 and CRE40.95 - and the pool is dynamic, the compliance with the
      criteria will be subject to dynamic checks every time that assets are added to the
      pool.


Simple, transparent and comparable term securitisations: criteria for
regulatory capital purposes
40.72 All criteria must be satisfied in order for a securitisation to receive alternative
      regulatory capital treatment.


Criterion A1: Nature of assets
40.73 In simple, transparent and comparable securitisations, the assets underlying the
      securitisation should be credit claims or receivables that are homogeneous. In
      assessing homogeneity, consideration should be given to asset type, jurisdiction,
      legal system and currency. As more exotic asset classes require more complex
      and deeper analysis, credit claims or receivables should have contractually
      identified periodic payment streams relating to rental, principal, interest, or
      principal and interest payments. Any referenced interest payments or discount
      rates should be based on commonly encountered market interest rates, but
      should not reference complex or complicated formulae or exotic derivatives.


     (1) For capital purposes, the “homogeneity” criterion should be assessed taking
         into account the following principles:

         (a) The nature of assets should be such that investors would not need to
             analyse and assess materially different legal and/or credit risk factors
             and risk profiles when carrying out risk analysis and due diligence
             checks.

         (b) Homogeneity should be assessed on the basis of common risk drivers,
             including similar risk factors and risk profiles.



         (c)   Credit claims or receivables included in the securitisation should have
               standard obligations, in terms of rights to payments and/or income
               from assets and that result in a periodic and well-defined stream of
               payments to investors. Credit card facilities should be deemed to result
               in a periodic and well-defined stream of payments to investors for the
               purposes of this criterion.

         (d) Repayment of noteholders should mainly rely on the principal and
             interest proceeds from the securitised assets. Partial reliance on
             refinancing or re-sale of the asset securing the exposure may occur
             provided that re-financing is sufficiently distributed within the pool and
             the residual values on which the transaction relies are sufficiently low
             and that the reliance on refinancing is thus not substantial.

     (2) Examples of “commonly encountered market interest rates” would include:

         (a) interbank rates and rates set by monetary policy authorities, such as the
             London Interbank Offered Rate (LIBOR), the Euro Interbank Offered Rate
             (Euribor) and the fed funds rate; and

         (b) sectoral rates reflective of a lender’s cost of funds, such as internal
             interest rates that directly reflect the market costs of a bank’s funding or
             that of a subset of institutions.

     (3) Interest rate caps and/or floors would not automatically be considered exotic
         derivatives.




   Payments on operating and financing leases are typically considered to
                   be rental payments rather than payments of principal and interest.

 Commonly encountered market interest rates may include rates
                   reflective of a lender’s cost of funds, to the extent that sufficient data
                   are provided to investors to allow them to assess their relation to other
                   market rates.

 The Global Association of Risk Professionals defines an exotic
                   instrument as a financial asset or instrument with features making it
                   more complex than simpler, plain vanilla, products.



Criterion A2: Asset performance history
40.74 In order to provide investors with sufficient information on an asset class to
      conduct appropriate due diligence and access to a sufficiently rich data set to
      enable a more accurate calculation of expected loss in different stress scenarios,
      verifiable loss performance data, such as delinquency and default data, should be
      available for credit claims and receivables with substantially similar risk
      characteristics to those being securitised, for a time period long enough to
      permit meaningful evaluation by investors. Sources of and access to data and the
      basis for claiming similarity to credit claims or receivables being securitised
      should be clearly disclosed to all market participants.

       (1) In addition to the history of the asset class within a jurisdiction, investors
           should consider whether the originator, sponsor, servicer and other parties
           with a fiduciary responsibility to the securitisation have an established
           performance history for substantially similar credit claims or receivables to
           those being securitised and for an appropriately long period of time. It is not
           the intention of the criteria to form an impediment to the entry of new
           participants to the market, but rather that investors should take into account
           the performance history of the asset class and the transaction parties when
           deciding whether to invest in a securitisation.




       (2) The originator/sponsor of the securitisation, as well as the original lender
           who underwrites the assets, must have sufficient experience in originating
           exposures similar to those securitised. For capital purposes, investors must
           determine whether the performance history of the originator and the original
           lender for substantially similar claims or receivables to those being
           securitised has been established for an "appropriately long period of time”.



            This performance history must be no shorter than a period of seven years for
            non-retail exposures. For retail exposures, the minimum performance history
            is five years.


This “additional consideration” may form part of investors’ due
                   diligence process, but does not form part of the criteria when
                   determining whether a securitisation can be considered “simple,
                   transparent and comparable”.



Criterion A3: Payment status
40.75 Non-performing credit claims and receivables are likely to require more complex
      and heightened analysis. In order to ensure that only performing credit claims
      and receivables are assigned to a securitisation, credit claims or receivables being
      transferred to the securitisation may not, at the time of inclusion in the pool,
      include obligations that are in default or delinquent or obligations for which the
      transferor or parties to the securitisation are aware of evidence indicating a
      material increase in expected losses or of enforcement actions.




     (1) To prevent credit claims or receivables arising from credit-impaired
         borrowers from being transferred to the securitisation, the originator or
         sponsor should verify that the credit claims or receivables meet the following
         conditions:

          (a) the obligor has not been the subject of an insolvency or debt
              restructuring process due to financial difficulties within three years prior
              to the date of origination; and

          (b) the obligor is not recorded on a public credit registry of persons with an
              adverse credit history; and,




          (c)   the obligor does not have a credit assessment by an external credit
                assessment institution or a credit score indicating a significant risk of
                default; and

          (d) the credit claim or receivable is not subject to a dispute between the
              obligor and the original lender.

     (2) The assessment of these conditions should be carried out by the originator
         or sponsor no earlier than 45 days prior to the closing date. Additionally, at
         the time of this assessment, there should to the best knowledge of the
         originator or sponsor be no evidence indicating likely deterioration in the
         performance status of the credit claim or receivable.

     (3) Additionally, at the time of their inclusion in the pool, at least one payment
         should have been made on the underlying exposures, except in the case of
         revolving asset trust structures such as those for credit card receivables,
         trade receivables, and other exposures payable in a single instalment, at
         maturity.


Eg the originator or sponsor.

Eg the servicer or a party with a fiduciary responsibility.

This condition would not apply to borrowers that previously had credit
                  incidents but were subsequently removed from credit registries as a
                  result of the borrower cleaning their records. This is the case in
                  jurisdictions in which borrowers have the “right to be forgotten”.




Criterion A4: Consistency of underwriting
40.76 Investor analysis should be simpler and more straightforward where the
      securitisation is of credit claims or receivables that satisfy materially non-
      deteriorating origination standards. To ensure that the quality of the securitised
      credit claims and receivables is not affected by changes in underwriting
      standards, the originator should demonstrate to investors that any credit claims
      or receivables being transferred to the securitisation have been originated in the
      ordinary course of the originator’s business to materially non-deteriorating
      underwriting standards. Where underwriting standards change, the originator
      should disclose the timing and purpose of such changes. Underwriting standards
      should not be less stringent than those applied to credit claims and receivables
      retained on the balance sheet. These should be credit claims or receivables which
      have satisfied materially non-deteriorating underwriting criteria and for which the
      obligors have been assessed as having the ability and volition to make timely
      payments on obligations; or on granular pools of obligors originated in the
      ordinary course of the originator’s business where expected cash flows have been
      modelled to meet stated obligations of the securitisation under prudently
      stressed loan loss scenarios.

       (1) In all circumstances, all credit claims or receivables must be originated in
           accordance with sound and prudent underwriting criteria based on an
           assessment that the obligor has the “ability and volition to make timely
           payments” on its obligations.

       (2) The originator/sponsor of the securitisation is expected, where underlying
           credit claims or receivables have been acquired from third parties, to review
           the underwriting standards (ie to check their existence and assess their
           quality) of these third parties and to ascertain that they have assessed the
           obligors’ “ability and volition to make timely payments on obligations”.


Criterion A5: Asset selection and transfer
40.77 Whilst recognising that credit claims or receivables transferred to a securitisation
      will be subject to defined criteria, the performance of the securitisation should
      not rely upon the ongoing selection of assets through active management on a
      discretionary basis of the securitisation’s underlying portfolio. Credit claims or
      receivables transferred to a securitisation should satisfy clearly defined eligibility
      criteria. Credit claims or receivables transferred to a securitisation after the
      closing date may not be actively selected, actively managed or otherwise cherry-
      picked on a discretionary basis. Investors should be able to assess the credit risk
      of the asset pool prior to their investment decisions.




Eg the size of the obligation, the age of the borrower or the loan-to-
                   value of the property, debt-to-income and/or debt service coverage
                   ratios.

 Provided they are not actively selected or otherwise cherry-picked on a
                   discretionary basis, the addition of credit claims or receivables during
                   the revolving periods or their substitution or repurchasing due to the
                   breach of representations and warranties do not represent active
                   portfolio management.


40.78 In order to meet the principle of true sale, the securitisation should effect true
      sale such that the underlying credit claims or receivables:

       (1) are enforceable against the obligor and their enforceability is included in the
           representations and warranties of the securitisation;

       (2) are beyond the reach of the seller, its creditors or liquidators and are not
           subject to material recharacterisation or clawback risks;

       (3) are not effected through credit default swaps, derivatives or guarantees, but
           by a transfer of the credit claims or the receivables to the securitisation;

       (4) demonstrate effective recourse to the ultimate obligation for the underlying
           credit claims or receivables and are not a securitisation of other
           securitisations; and

       (5) for regulatory capital purposes, an independent third-party legal opinion
           must support the claim that the true sale and the transfer of assets under the
           applicable laws comply with the points under CRE40.78(1) to CRE40.78(4).


The requirement should not affect jurisdictions whose legal frameworks
                   provide for a true sale with the same effects as described above, but by
                   means other than a transfer of the credit claims or receivables.




40.79 In applicable jurisdictions, securitisations employing transfers of credit claims or
      receivables by other means should demonstrate the existence of material
      obstacles preventing true sale at issuance and should clearly demonstrate the
      method of recourse to ultimate obligors. In such jurisdictions, any conditions
      where the transfer of the credit claims or receivable is delayed or contingent
      upon specific events and any factors affecting timely perfection of claims by the
      securitisation should be clearly disclosed. The originator should provide
      representations and warranties that the credit claims or receivables being
      transferred to the securitisation are not subject to any condition or encumbrance
      that can be foreseen to adversely affect enforceability in respect of collections
      due.


 Eg the immediate realisation of transfer tax or the requirement to
                   notify all obligors of the transfer.

  Eg equitable assignment, perfected contingent transfer.



Criterion A6: Initial and ongoing data
40.80 To assist investors in conducting appropriate due diligence prior to investing in a
      new offering, sufficient loan-level data in accordance with applicable laws or, in
      the case of granular pools, summary stratification data on the relevant risk
      characteristics of the underlying pool should be available to potential investors
      before pricing of a securitisation. To assist investors in conducting appropriate
      and ongoing monitoring of their investments’ performance and so that investors
      that wish to purchase a securitisation in the secondary market have sufficient
      information to conduct appropriate due diligence, timely loan-level data in
      accordance with applicable laws or granular pool stratification data on the risk
      characteristics of the underlying pool and standardised investor reports should
      be readily available to current and potential investors at least quarterly
      throughout the life of the securitisation. Cut-off dates of the loan-level or
      granular pool stratification data should be aligned with those used for investor
      reporting. To provide a level of assurance that the reporting of the underlying
      credit claims or receivables is accurate and that the underlying credit claims or
      receivables meet the eligibility requirements, the initial portfolio should be
      reviewed for conformity with the eligibility requirements by an appropriate
      legally accountable and independent third party, such as an independent
      accounting practice or the calculation agent or management company for the
      securitisation.



 The review should confirm that the credit claims or receivables
                   transferred to the securitisation meet the portfolio eligibility
                   requirements. The review could, for example, be undertaken on a
                   representative sample of the initial portfolio, with the application of a
                   minimum confidence level. The verification report need not be provided
                   but its results, including any material exceptions, should be disclosed in
                   the initial offering documentation.



Criterion B7: Redemption cash flows
40.81 Liabilities subject to the refinancing risk of the underlying credit claims or
      receivables are likely to require more complex and heightened analysis. To help
      ensure that the underlying credit claims or receivables do not need to be
      refinanced over a short period of time, there should not be a reliance on the sale
      or refinancing of the underlying credit claims or receivables in order to repay the
      liabilities, unless the underlying pool of credit claims or receivables is sufficiently
      granular and has sufficiently distributed repayment profiles. Rights to receive
      income from the assets specified to support redemption payments should be
      considered as eligible credit claims or receivables in this regard.

For example, associated savings plans designed to repay principal at
                   maturity.



Criterion B8: Currency and interest rate asset and liability mismatches
40.82 To reduce the payment risk arising from the different interest rate and currency
      profiles of assets and liabilities and to improve investors’ ability to model cash
      flows, interest rate and foreign currency risks should be appropriately mitigated
      at all times, and if any hedging transaction is executed the transaction should be
      documented according to industry-standard master agreements. Only derivatives
      used for genuine hedging of asset and liability mismatches of interest rate and /
      or currency should be allowed.




     (1) For capital purposes, the term “appropriately mitigated” should be
         understood as not necessarily requiring a completely perfect hedge. The
         appropriateness of the mitigation of interest rate and foreign currency
         through the life of the transaction must be demonstrated by making
         available to potential investors, in a timely and regular manner, quantitative

          information including the fraction of notional amounts that are hedged, as
          well as sensitivity analysis that illustrates the effectiveness of the hedge
          under extreme but plausible scenarios.

     (2) If hedges are not performed through derivatives, then those risk-mitigating
         measures are only permitted if they are specifically created and used for the
         purpose of hedging an individual and specific risk, and not multiple risks at
         the same time (such as credit and interest rate risks). Non-derivative risk
         mitigation measures must be fully funded and available at all times.


  The term “appropriately mitigated” should be understood as not
                 necessarily requiring a matching hedge. The appropriateness of
                 hedging through the life of the transaction should be demonstrated
                 and disclosed on a continuous basis to investors.




Criterion B9: Payment priorities and observability
40.83 To prevent investors being subjected to unexpected repayment profiles during
      the life of a securitisation, the priorities of payments for all liabilities in all
      circumstances should be clearly defined at the time of securitisation and
      appropriate legal comfort regarding their enforceability should be provided. To
      ensure that junior noteholders do not have inappropriate payment preference
      over senior noteholders that are due and payable, throughout the life of a
      securitisation, or, where there are multiple securitisations backed by the same
      pool of credit claims or receivables, throughout the life of the securitisation
      programme, junior liabilities should not have payment preference over senior
      liabilities which are due and payable. The securitisation should not be structured
      as a “reverse” cash flow waterfall such that junior liabilities are paid where due
      and payable senior liabilities have not been paid. To help provide investors with
      full transparency over any changes to the cash flow waterfall, payment profile or
      priority of payments that might affect a securitisation, all triggers affecting the
      cash flow waterfall, payment profile or priority of payments of the securitisation
      should be clearly and fully disclosed both in offering documents and in investor
      reports, with information in the investor report that clearly identifies the breach
      status, the ability for the breach to be reversed and the consequences of the
      breach. Investor reports should contain information that allows investors to
      monitor the evolution over time of the indicators that are subject to triggers. Any
      triggers breached between payment dates should be disclosed to investors on a
      timely basis in accordance with the terms and conditions of all underlying
      transaction documents.

40.84 Securitisations featuring a replenishment period should include provisions for
      appropriate early amortisation events and/or triggers of termination of the
      replenishment period, including, notably:

       (1) deterioration in the credit quality of the underlying exposures;

       (2) a failure to acquire sufficient new underlying exposures of similar credit
           quality; and

       (3) the occurrence of an insolvency-related event with regard to the originator
           or the servicer.

40.85 Following the occurrence of a performance-related trigger, an event of default or
      an acceleration event, the securitisation positions should be repaid in accordance
      with a sequential amortisation priority of payments, in order of tranche seniority,
      and there should not be provisions requiring immediate liquidation of the
      underlying assets at market value




40.86
        To assist investors in their ability to appropriately model the cash flow waterfall of
        the securitisation, the originator or sponsor should make available to investors,
        both before pricing of the securitisation and on an ongoing basis, a liability cash
        flow model or information on the cash flow provisions allowing appropriate
        modelling of the securitisation cash flow waterfall.

40.87 To ensure that debt forgiveness, forbearance, payment holidays and other asset
      performance remedies can be clearly identified, policies and procedures,
      definitions, remedies and actions relating to delinquency, default or restructuring
      of underlying debtors should be provided in clear and consistent terms, such that
      investors can clearly identify debt forgiveness, forbearance, payment holidays,
      restructuring and other asset performance remedies on an ongoing basis.


Criterion B10: Voting and enforcement rights
40.88 To help ensure clarity for securitisation note holders of their rights and ability to
      control and enforce on the underlying credit claims or receivables, upon
      insolvency of the originator or sponsor, all voting and enforcement rights related
      to the credit claims or receivables should be transferred to the securitisation.
      Investors’ rights in the securitisation should be clearly defined in all
      circumstances, including the rights of senior versus junior note holders.




Criterion B11: Documentation disclosure and legal review
40.89 To help investors to fully understand the terms, conditions, legal and commercial
      information prior to investing in a new offering and to ensure that this
      information is set out in a clear and effective manner for all programmes and
      offerings, sufficient initial offering and draft underlying documentation should
      be made available to investors (and readily available to potential investors on a
      continuous basis) within a reasonably sufficient period of time prior to pricing, or
      when legally permissible, such that the investor is provided with full disclosure of
      the legal and commercial information and comprehensive risk factors needed to
      make informed investment decisions. Final offering documents should be
      available from the closing date and all final underlying transaction documents
      shortly thereafter. These should be composed such that readers can readily find,
      understand and use relevant information. To ensure that all the securitisation’s
      underlying documentation has been subject to appropriate review prior to
      publication, the terms and documentation of the securitisation should be
      reviewed by an appropriately experienced third party legal practice, such as a
      legal counsel already instructed by one of the transaction parties, eg by the
      arranger or the trustee. Investors should be notified in a timely fashion of any
      changes in such documents that have an impact on the structural risks in the
      securitisation.


For the avoidance of doubt, any type of securitisation should be
                   allowed to fulfil the requirements of CRE40.89 once it meets its
                   prescribed standards of disclosure and legal review.
Eg draft offering circular, draft offering memorandum, draft offering
                   document or draft prospectus, such as a “red herring”
Eg asset sale agreement, assignment, novation or transfer agreement;
                   servicing, backup servicing, administration and cash management
                   agreements; trust/management deed, security deed, agency
                   agreement, account bank agreement, guaranteed investment contract,
                   incorporated terms or master trust framework or master definitions
                   agreement as applicable; any relevant inter-creditor agreements, swap
                   or derivative documentation, subordinated loan agreements, start-up
                   loan agreements and liquidity facility agreements; and any other
                   relevant underlying documentation, including legal opinions.




Criterion B12: Alignment of interest
40.90 In order to align the interests of those responsible for the underwriting of the
      credit claims or receivables with those of investors, the originator or sponsor of
      the credit claims or receivables should retain a material net economic exposure
      and demonstrate a financial incentive in the performance of these assets
      following their securitisation.


Criterion C13: Fiduciary and contractual responsibilities
40.91 To help ensure servicers have extensive workout expertise, thorough legal and
      collateral knowledge and a proven track record in loss mitigation, such parties
      should be able to demonstrate expertise in the servicing of the underlying credit
      claims or receivables, supported by a management team with extensive industry
      experience. The servicer should at all times act in accordance with reasonable and
      prudent standards. Policies, procedures and risk management controls should be
      well documented and adhere to good market practices and relevant regulatory
      regimes. There should be strong systems and reporting capabilities in place. In
      assessing whether “strong systems and reporting capabilities are in place” for
      capital purposes, well documented policies, procedures and risk management
      controls, as well as strong systems and reporting capabilities, may be
      substantiated by a third-party review for non-banking entities.

40.92 The party or parties with fiduciary responsibility should act on a timely basis in
      the best interests of the securitisation note holders, and both the initial offering
      and all underlying documentation should contain provisions facilitating the timely
      resolution of conflicts between different classes of note holders by the trustees,
      to the extent permitted by applicable law. The party or parties with fiduciary
      responsibility to the securitisation and to investors should be able to demonstrate
      sufficient skills and resources to comply with their duties of care in the
      administration of the securitisation vehicle. To increase the likelihood that those
      identified as having a fiduciary responsibility towards investors as well as the
      servicer execute their duties in full on a timely basis, remuneration should be such
      that these parties are incentivised and able to meet their responsibilities in full
      and on a timely basis.




Criterion C14: Transparency to investors
40.93 To help provide full transparency to investors, assist investors in the conduct of
      their due diligence and to prevent investors being subject to unexpected
      disruptions in cash flow collections and servicing, the contractual obligations,
      duties and responsibilities of all key parties to the securitisation, both those with
      a fiduciary responsibility and of the ancillary service providers, should be defined
      clearly both in the initial offering and all underlying documentation. Provisions
      should be documented for the replacement of servicers, bank account providers,
      derivatives counterparties and liquidity providers in the event of failure or non-
      performance or insolvency or other deterioration of creditworthiness of any such
      counterparty to the securitisation. To enhance transparency and visibility over all
      receipts, payments and ledger entries at all times, the performance reports to
      investors should distinguish and report the securitisation’s income and
      disbursements, such as scheduled principal, redemption principal, scheduled
      interest, prepaid principal, past due interest and fees and charges, delinquent,
      defaulted and restructured amounts under debt forgiveness and payment
      holidays, including accurate accounting for amounts attributable to principal and
      interest deficiency ledgers.

       (1) For capital purposes, the terms “initial offering” and “underlying transaction
           documentation” should be understood in the context defined by CRE40.89.

       (2) The term “income and disbursements” should also be understood as
           including deferment, forbearance, and repurchases among the items
           described.


Criterion D15: Credit risk of underlying exposures
40.94 At the portfolio cut-off date the underlying exposures have to meet the
      conditions under the Standardised Approach for credit risk, and after taking into
      account any eligible credit risk mitigation, for being assigned a risk weight equal
      to or smaller than:

       (1) 40% on a value-weighted average exposure basis for the portfolio where the
           exposures are loans secured by residential mortgages or fully guaranteed
           residential loans;

       (2) 50% on an individual exposure basis where the exposure is a loan secured by
           a commercial mortgage;

       (3) 75% on an individual exposure basis where the exposure is a retail exposure;
           or




       (4) 100% on an individual exposure basis for any other exposure.


Criterion D16: Granularity of the pool
40.95 At the portfolio cut-off date, the aggregated value of all exposures to a single
      obligor shall not exceed 1% of the aggregated outstanding exposure value of
      all exposures in the portfolio.


In jurisdictions with structurally concentrated corporate loan markets
                   available for securitisation subject to ex ante supervisory approval and
                   only for corporate exposures, the applicable maximum concentration
                   threshold could be increased to 2% if the originator or sponsor retains
                   subordinated tranche(s) that form loss absorbing credit enhancement,
                   as defined in CRE44.16, and which cover at least the first 10% of losses.
                   These tranche(s) retained by the originator or sponsor shall not be
                   eligible for the STC capital treatment.



Simple, transparent and comparable short-term securitisations: criteria
for regulatory capital purposes
40.96 The following definitions apply when the terms are used in CRE40.97 to CRE40.165
      :

       (1) ABCP conduit/conduit – ABCP conduit, being the special purpose vehicle
           which can issue commercial paper;

       (2) ABCP programme – the programme of commercial paper issued by an ABCP
           conduit;

       (3) Assets/asset pool – the credit claims and/or receivables underlying a
           transaction in which the ABCP conduit holds a beneficial interest;

       (4) Investor – the holder of commercial paper issued under an ABCP
           programme, or any type of exposure to the conduit representing a financing
           liability of the conduit, such as loans;

       (5) Obligor – borrower underlying a credit claim or a receivable that is part of an
           asset pool;




       (6) Seller – a party that:



            (a) concluded (in its capacity as original lender) the original agreement that
                created the obligations or potential obligations (under a credit claim or
                a receivable) of an obligor or purchased the obligations or potential
                obligations from the original lender(s); and

            (b) transferred those assets through a transaction or passed on the interest
            
                   to the ABCP conduit.

       (7) Sponsor – sponsor of an ABCP conduit. It may also be noted that other
           relevant parties with a fiduciary responsibility in the management and
           administration of the ABCP conduit could also undertake control of some of
           the responsibilities of the sponsor; and

       (8) Transaction – An individual transaction in which the ABCP conduit holds a
           beneficial interest. A transaction may qualify as a securitisation, but may also
           be a direct asset purchase, the acquisition of undivided interest in a
           replenishing pool of asset, a secured loan etc.

For instance, transactions in which assets are sold to a special purpose
                   entity sponsored by a bank’s customer and then either a security
                   interest in the assets is granted to the ABCP conduit to secure a loan
                   made by the ABCP conduit to the sponsored special purpose entity, or
                   an undivided interest is sold to the ABCP conduit.


40.97 For exposures at the conduit level (eg exposure arising from investing in the
      commercial papers issued by the ABCP programme or sponsoring arrangements
      at the conduit/programme level), compliance with the short-term STC capital
      criteria is only achieved if the criteria are satisfied at both the conduit and
      transaction levels.

40.98 In the case of exposures at the transaction level, compliance with the short-term
      STC capital criteria is considered to be achieved if the transaction level criteria are
      satisfied for the transactions to which support is provided.




Criterion A1: Nature of assets (conduit level)
40.99 The sponsor should make representations and warranties to investors that the
      criterion set out in CRE40.100 are met, and explain how this is the case on an
      overall basis. Only if specified should this be done for each transaction. Provided
      that each individual underlying transaction is homogeneous in terms of asset
      type, a conduit may be used to finance transactions of different asset types.
      Programme wide credit enhancement should not prevent a conduit from
      qualifying for STC, regardless of whether such enhancement technically creates re-
      securitisation.


Criterion A1: Nature of assets (transaction level)
40.100 The assets underlying a transaction in a conduit should be credit claims or
      receivables that are homogeneous, in terms of asset type. The assets underlying
      each individual transaction in a conduit should not be composed of
      “securitisation exposures” as defined in CRE40.4. Credit claims or receivables
      underlying a transaction in a conduit should have contractually identified periodic
      payment streams relating to rental, principal, interest, or principal and interest
      payments. Credit claims or receivables generating a single payment stream would
      equally qualify as eligible. Any referenced interest payments or discount rates
      should be based on commonly encountered market interest rates, but should
      not reference complex or complicated formulae or exotic derivatives.


 For the avoidance of doubt, this criterion does not automatically
                   exclude securitisations of equipment leases and securitisations of auto
                   loans and leases from the short-term STC framework.

 Payments on operating and financing lease are typically considered to
                   be rental payments rather than payments of principal and interest.

Commonly encountered market interest rates may include rates
                   reflective of a lender’s cost of funds, to the extent sufficient data is
                   provided to the sponsors to allow them to assess their relation to other
                   market rates.

The Global Association of Risk Professionals defines an exotic
                   instrument as a financial asset or instrument with features making it
                   more complex than simpler, plain vanilla, products.




Additional guidance for Criterion A1
40.101 The “homogeneity” criterion should be assessed taking into account the
      following principles:

       (1) The nature of assets should be such that there would be no need to analyse
           and assess materially different legal and/or credit risk factors and risk
           profiles when carrying out risk analysis and due diligence checks for the
           transaction.

       (2) Homogeneity should be assessed on the basis of common risk drivers,
           including similar risk factors and risk profiles.

       (3) Credit claims or receivables included in the securitisation should have
           standard obligations, in terms of rights to payments and/or income from
           assets and that result in a periodic and well-defined stream of payments to
           investors. Credit card facilities should be deemed to result in a periodic and
           well-defined stream of payments to investors for the purposes of this
           criterion.

       (4) Repayment of the securitisation exposure should mainly rely on the principal
           and interest proceeds from the securitised assets. Partial reliance on
           refinancing or re-sale of the asset securing the exposure may occur provided
           that re-financing is sufficiently distributed within the pool and the residual
           values on which the transaction relies are sufficiently low and that the
           reliance on refinancing is thus not substantial.

40.102 Examples of “commonly encountered market interest rates” would include:

       (1) interbank rates and rates set by monetary policy authorities, such as LIBOR,
           Euribor and the fed funds rate; and

       (2) sectoral rates reflective of a lender’s cost of funds, such as internal interest
           rates that directly reflect the market costs of a bank’s funding or that of a
           subset of institutions.

40.103 Interest rate caps and/or floors would not automatically be considered exotic
      derivatives.

40.104 The transaction level requirement is still met if the conduit does not purchase the
      underlying asset with a refundable purchase price discount but instead acquires a
      beneficial interest in the form of a note which itself might qualify as a
      securitisation exposure, as long as the securitisation exposure is not subject to
      any further tranching (ie has the same economic characteristic as the purchase of
      the underlying asset with a refundable purchase price discount).




Criterion A2: Asset performance history (conduit level)
40.105 In order to provide investors with sufficient information on the performance
      history of the asset types backing the transactions, the sponsor should make
      available to investors, sufficient loss performance data of claims and receivables
      with substantially similar risk characteristics, such as delinquency and default data
      of similar claims, and for a time period long enough to permit meaningful
      evaluation. The sponsor should disclose to investors the sources of such data and
      the basis for claiming similarity to credit claims or receivables financed by the
      conduit. Such loss performance data may be provided on a stratified basis.
Stratified means by way of example, all materially relevant data on the
                   conduit’s composition (outstanding balances, industry sector, obligor
                   concentrations, maturities, etc) and conduit’s overview and all
                   materially relevant data on the credit quality and performance of
                   underlying transactions, allowing investors to identify collections, and
                   as applicable, debt restructuring, forgiveness, forbearance, payment
                   holidays, repurchases, delinquencies and defaults.



Criterion A2: Asset performance history (transaction level)
40.106 In order to provide the sponsor with sufficient information on the performance
      history of each asset type backing the transactions and to conduct appropriate
      due diligence and to have access to a sufficiently rich data set to enable a more
      accurate calculation of expected loss in different stress scenarios, verifiable loss
      performance data, such as delinquency and default data, should be available for
      credit claims and receivables with substantially similar risk characteristics to those
      being financed by the conduit, for a time period long enough to permit
      meaningful evaluation by the sponsor.




Additional requirement for Criterion A2
40.107 The sponsor of the securitisation, as well as the original lender who underwrites
      the assets, must have sufficient experience in the risk analysis/underwriting of
      exposures or transactions with underlying exposures similar to those securitised.
      The sponsor should have well documented procedures and policies regarding the
      underwriting of transactions and the ongoing monitoring of the performance of
      the securitised exposures. The sponsor should ensure that the seller(s) and all
      other parties involved in the origination of the receivables have experience in
      originating same or similar assets, and are supported by a management with
      industry experience. For the purpose of meeting the short-term STC capital
      criteria, investors must request confirmation from the sponsor that the
      performance history of the originator and the original lender for substantially
      similar claims or receivables to those being securitised has been established for
      an "appropriately long period of time”. This performance history must be no
      shorter than a period of five years for non-retail exposures. For retail exposures,
      the minimum performance history is three years.


Criterion A3: Asset performance history (conduit level)
40.108 The sponsor should, to the best of its knowledge and based on representations
      from sellers, make representations and warranties to investors that CRE40.109 is
      met with respect to each transaction.


Criterion A3: Asset performance history (transaction level)
40.109 The sponsor should obtain representations from sellers that the credit claims or
      receivables underlying each individual transaction are not, at the time of
      acquisition of the interests to be financed by the conduit, in default or delinquent
      or subject to a material increase in expected losses or of enforcement actions.


Additional requirement for Criterion A3
40.110 To prevent credit claims or receivables arising from credit-impaired borrowers
      from being transferred to the securitisation, the original seller or sponsor should
      verify that the credit claims or receivables meet the following conditions for each
      transaction:

       (1) the obligor has not been the subject of an insolvency or debt restructuring
           process due to financial difficulties in the three years prior to the date of
           origination;

       (2) the obligor is not recorded on a public credit registry of persons with an
           adverse credit history;

       (3) the obligor does not have a credit assessment by an external credit
           assessment institution or a credit score indicating a significant risk of default;
           and

       (4) the credit claim or receivable is not subject to a dispute between the obligor
           and the original lender.

 This condition would not apply to borrowers that previously had credit
                   incidents but were subsequently removed from credit registries as a
                   result of the borrowers cleaning their records. This is the case in
                   jurisdictions in which borrowers have the “right to be forgotten”.


40.111 The assessment of these conditions should be carried out by the original seller or
      sponsor no earlier than 45 days prior to acquisition of the transaction by the
      conduit or, in the case of replenishing transactions, no earlier than 45 days prior
      to new exposures being added to the transaction. In addition, at the time of the
      assessment, there should to the best knowledge of the original seller or sponsor
      be no evidence indicating likely deterioration in the performance status of the
      credit claim or receivable. Further, at the time of their inclusion in the pool, at
      least one payment should have been made on the underlying exposures, except
      in the case of replenishing asset trust structures such as those for credit card
      receivables, trade receivables, and other exposures payable in a single instalment,
      at maturity.


Criterion A4: Consistency of underwriting (conduit level)
40.112 The sponsor should make representations and warranties to investors that:

       (1) it has taken steps to verify that for the transactions in the conduit, any
           underlying credit claims and receivables have been subject to consistent
           underwriting standards, and explain how.

       (2) when there are material changes to underwriting standards, it will receive
           from sellers disclosure about the timing and purpose of such changes.

40.113 The sponsor should also inform investors of the material selection criteria applied
      when selecting sellers (including where they are not financial institutions).




Criterion A4: Consistency of underwriting (transaction level)
40.114 The sponsor should ensure that sellers (in their capacity of original lenders) in
      transactions with the conduit demonstrate to it that:

       (1) any credit claims or receivables being transferred to or through a transaction
           held by the conduit have been originated in the ordinary course of the seller’
           s business subject to materially non-deteriorating underwriting standards.
           Those underwriting standards should also not be less stringent than those
           applied to credit claims and receivables retained on the balance sheet of the
           seller and not financed by the conduit; and

       (2) the obligors have been assessed as having the ability and volition to make
           timely payments on obligations.

40.115 The sponsor should also ensure that sellers disclose to it the timing and purpose
      of material changes to underwriting standards.


Additional requirement for Criterion A4
40.116 In all circumstances, all credit claims or receivables must be originated in
      accordance with sound and prudent underwriting criteria based on an
      assessment that the obligor has the “ability and volition to make timely
      payments” on its obligations. The sponsor of the securitisation is expected, where
      underlying credit claims or receivables have been acquired from third parties, to
      review the underwriting standards (ie to check their existence and assess their
      quality) of these third parties and to ascertain that they have assessed the
      obligors’ “ability and volition to make timely payments” on their obligations.


Criterion A5: Asset selection and transfer (conduit level)
40.117 The sponsor should:

       (1) provide representations and warranties to investors about the checks, in
           nature and frequency, it has conducted regarding enforceability of
           underlying assets.

       (2) disclose to investors the receipt of appropriate representations and
           warranties from sellers that the credit claims or receivables being transferred
           to the transactions in the conduit are not subject to any condition or
           encumbrance that can be foreseen to adversely affect enforceability in
           respect of collections due.




Criterion A5: Asset selection and transfer (transaction level)
40.118 The sponsor should be able to assess thoroughly the credit risk of the asset pool
      prior to its decision to provide full support to any given transaction or to the
      conduit. The sponsor should ensure that credit claims or receivables transferred
      to or through a transaction financed by the conduit:

       (1) satisfy clearly defined eligibility criteria; and

       (2) are not actively selected after the closing date, actively managed or
           otherwise cherry-picked on a discretionary basis.

Provided they are not actively selected or otherwise cherry picked on a
                   discretionary basis, the addition of credit claims or receivables during
                   the replenishment periods or their substitution or repurchasing due to
                   the breach of representations and warranties do not represent active
                   portfolio management.


40.119 The sponsor should ensure that the transactions in the conduit effect true sale
      such that the underlying credit claims or receivables:

       (1) are enforceable against the obligor;

       (2) are beyond the reach of the seller, its creditors or liquidators and are not
           subject to material re-characterisation or clawback risks;

       (3) are not effected through credit default swaps, derivatives or guarantees, but
           by a transfer of the credit claims or the receivables to the transaction; and

       (4) demonstrate effective recourse to the ultimate obligation for the underlying
           credit claims or receivables and are not a re-securitisation position.

This requirement should not affect jurisdictions whose legal
                   frameworks provide for a true sale with the same effects as described
                   above, but by means other than a transfer of the credit claims or
                   receivables.




40.120 The sponsor should ensure that in applicable jurisdictions, for conduits
      employing transfers of credit claims or receivables by other means, sellers can
      demonstrate to it the existence of material obstacles preventing true sale at
      issuance (eg the immediate realisation of transfer tax or the requirement to notify
      all obligors of the transfer) and should clearly demonstrate the method of
      recourse to ultimate obligors (eg equitable assignment, perfected contingent
      transfer). In such jurisdictions, any conditions where the transfer of the credit
      claims or receivables is delayed or contingent upon specific events and any
      factors affecting timely perfection of claims by the conduit should be clearly
      disclosed.

40.121 The sponsor should ensure that it receives from the individual sellers (either in
      their capacity as original lender or servicer) representations and warranties that
      the credit claims or receivables being transferred to or through the transaction
      are not subject to any condition or encumbrance that can be foreseen to
      adversely affect enforceability in respect of collections due.


Additional requirement for Criterion A5
40.122 An in-house legal opinion or an independent third-party legal opinion must
      support the claim that the true sale and the transfer of assets under the
      applicable laws comply with CRE40.118(1) and CRE40.118(2) at the transaction
      level.


Criterion A6: Initial and ongoing data (conduit level)
40.123 To assist investors in conducting appropriate due diligence prior to investing in a
      new programme offering, the sponsor should provide to potential investors
      sufficient aggregated data that illustrate the relevant risk characteristics of the
      underlying asset pools in accordance with applicable laws. To assist investors in
      conducting appropriate and ongoing monitoring of their investments’
      performance and so that investors who wish to purchase commercial paper have
      sufficient information to conduct appropriate due diligence, the sponsor should
      provide timely and sufficient aggregated data that provide the relevant risk
      characteristics of the underlying pools in accordance with applicable laws. The
      sponsor should ensure that standardised investor reports are readily available to
      current and potential investors at least monthly. Cut off dates of the aggregated
      data should be aligned with those used for investor reporting.




Criterion A6: Initial and ongoing data (transaction level)
40.124 The sponsor should ensure that the individual sellers (in their capacity of
      servicers) provide it with:

       (1) sufficient asset level data in accordance with applicable laws or, in the case
           of granular pools, summary stratification data on the relevant risk
           characteristics of the underlying pool before transferring any credit claims or
           receivables to such underlying pool.

       (2) timely asset level data in accordance with applicable laws or granular pool
           stratification data on the risk characteristics of the underlying pool on an
           ongoing basis. Those data should allow the sponsor to fulfil its fiduciary duty
           at the conduit level in terms of disclosing information to investors including
           the alignment of cut off dates of the asset level or granular pool stratification
           data with those used for investor reporting.

40.125 The seller may delegate some of these tasks and, in this case, the sponsor should
      ensure that there is appropriate oversight of the outsourced arrangements.


Additional requirement for Criterion A6
40.126 The standardised investor reports which are made readily available to current and
      potential investors at least monthly should include the following information:

       (1) materially relevant data on the credit quality and performance of underlying
           assets, including data allowing investors to identify dilution, delinquencies
           and defaults, restructured receivables, forbearance, repurchases, losses,
           recoveries and other asset performance remedies in the pool;

       (2) the form and amount of credit enhancement provided by the seller and
           sponsor at transaction and conduit levels, respectively;

       (3) relevant information on the support provided by the sponsor; and

       (4) the status and definitions of relevant triggers (such as performance,
           termination or counterparty replacement triggers).




Criterion B7: Full support (conduit level only)
40.127 The sponsor should provide the liquidity facility(ies) and the credit protection
      support for any ABCP programme issued by a conduit. Such facility(ies) and
      support should ensure that investors are fully protected against credit risks,
      liquidity risks and any material dilution risks of the underlying asset pools
      financed by the conduit. As such, investors should be able to rely on the sponsor
      to ensure timely and full repayment of the commercial paper.


A sponsor can provide full support either at ABCP programme level or
                   at transaction level, ie by fully supporting each transaction within an
                   ABCP programme.



Additional requirement for Criterion B7
40.128 While liquidity and credit protection support at both the conduit level and
      transaction level can be provided by more than one sponsor, the majority of the
      support (assessed in terms of coverage) has to be made by a single sponsor
      (referred to as the “main sponsor”). An exception can however be made for a
      limited period of time, where the main sponsor has to be replaced due to a
      material deterioration in its credit standing.


 “Liquidity and credit protection support” refers to support provided by
                   the sponsors. Any support provided by the seller is excluded.


40.129 The full support provided should be able to irrevocably and unconditionally pay
      the ABCP liabilities in full and on time. The list of risks provided in CRE40.127 that
      have to be covered is not comprehensive but rather provides typical examples.

40.130 Under the terms of the liquidity facility agreement:

       (1) Upon specified events affecting its creditworthiness, the sponsor shall be
           obliged to collateralise its commitment in cash to the benefit of the investors
           or otherwise replace itself with another liquidity provider.
       (2) If the sponsor does not renew its funding commitment for a specific
           transaction or the conduit in its entirety, the sponsor shall collateralise its
           commitments regarding a specific transaction or, if relevant, to the conduit

           in cash at the latest 30 days prior to the expiration of the liquidity facility,
           and no new receivables should be purchased under the affected
           commitment.

40.131 The sponsor should provide investors with full information about the terms of the
      liquidity facility (facilities) and the credit support provided to the ABCP conduit
      and the underlying transactions (in relation to the transactions, redacted where
      necessary to protect confidentiality).


Criterion B8: Redemption cash flow (transaction level only)
40.132 Unless the underlying pool of credit claims or receivables is sufficiently granular
      and has sufficiently distributed repayment profiles, the sponsor should ensure
      that the repayment of the credit claims or receivables underlying any of the
      individual transactions relies primarily on the general ability and willingness of
      the obligor to pay rather than the possibility that the obligor refinances or sells
      the collateral and that such repayment does not primarily rely on the drawing of
      an external liquidity facility provided to this transaction.


Additional requirement for Criterion B8
40.133 Sponsors cannot use support provided by their own liquidity and credit facilities
      towards meeting this criterion. For the avoidance of doubt, the requirement that
      the repayment shall not primarily rely on the drawing of an external liquidity
      facility does not apply to exposures in the form of the notes issued by the ABCP
      conduit.


Criterion B9: Currency and interest rate asset and liability mismatches
(conduit level)
40.134 The sponsor should ensure that any payment risk arising from different interest
      rate and currency profiles not mitigated at transaction-level or arising at conduit
      level is appropriately mitigated. The sponsor should also ensure that derivatives
      are used for genuine hedging purposes only and that hedging transactions are
      documented according to industry-standard master agreements. The sponsor
      should provide sufficient information to investors to allow them to assess how
      the payment risk arising from the different interest rate and currency profiles of
      assets and liabilities are appropriately mitigated, whether at the conduit or at
      transaction level.

Criterion B9: Currency and interest rate asset and liability mismatches
(transaction level)
40.135 To reduce the payment risk arising from the different interest rate and currency
      profiles of assets and liabilities, if any, and to improve the sponsor’s ability to
      analyse cash flows of transactions, the sponsor should ensure that interest rate
      and foreign currency risks are appropriately mitigated. The sponsor should also
      ensure that derivatives are used for genuine hedging purposes only and that
      hedging transactions are documented according to industry-standard master
      agreements.


Additional requirement for Criterion B9
40.136 The term “appropriately mitigated” should be understood as not necessarily
      requiring a completely perfect hedge. The appropriateness of the mitigation of
      interest rate and foreign currency risks through the life of the transaction must be
      demonstrated by making available, in a timely and regular manner, quantitative
      information including the fraction of notional amounts that are hedged, as well as
      sensitivity analysis that illustrates the effectiveness of the hedge under extreme
      but plausible scenarios. The use of risk-mitigating measures other than
      derivatives is permitted only if the measures are specifically created and used for
      the purpose of hedging an individual and specific risk. Non-derivative risk
      mitigation measures must be fully funded and available at all times.


Criterion B10: Payment priorities and observability (conduit level)
40.137 The commercial paper issued by the ABCP programme should not include
      extension options or other features which may extend the final maturity of the
      asset-backed commercial paper, where the right of trigger does not belong
      exclusively to investors. The sponsor should:

       (1) make representations and warranties to investors that the criterion set out in
           CRE40.138 to CRE40.143 is met and in particular, that it has the ability to
           appropriately analyse the cash flow waterfall for each transaction which
           qualifies as a securitisation; and

       (2) make available to investors a summary (illustrating the functioning) of these
           waterfalls and of the credit enhancement available at programme level and
           transaction level.




Criterion B10: Payment priorities and observability (transaction level)
40.138 To prevent the conduit from being subjected to unexpected repayment profiles
      from the transactions, the sponsor should ensure that priorities of payments are
      clearly defined at the time of acquisition of the interests in these transactions by
      the conduit; and appropriate legal comfort regarding the enforceability is
      provided.

40.139 For all transactions which qualify as a securitisation, the sponsor should ensure
      that all triggers affecting the cash flow waterfall, payment profile or priority of
      payments are clearly and fully disclosed to the sponsor both in the transactions’
      documentation and reports, with information in the reports that clearly identifies
      any breach status, the ability for the breach to be reversed and the consequences
      of the breach. Reports should contain information that allows sponsors to easily
      ascertain the likelihood of a trigger being breached or reversed. Any triggers
      breached between payment dates should be disclosed to sponsors on a timely
      basis in accordance with the terms and conditions of the transaction documents.

40.140 For any of the transactions where the beneficial interest held by the conduit
      qualifies as a securitisation position, the sponsor should ensure that any
      subordinated positions do not have inappropriate payment preference over
      payments to the conduit (which should always rank senior to any other position)
      and which are due and payable.

40.141 Transactions featuring a replenishment period should include provisions for
      appropriate early amortisation events and/or triggers of termination of the
      replenishment period, including, notably, deterioration in the credit quality of the
      underlying exposures; a failure to replenish sufficient new underlying exposures
      of similar credit quality; and the occurrence of an insolvency related event with
      regard to the individual sellers.

40.142 To ensure that debt forgiveness, forbearance, payment holidays, restructuring,
      dilution and other asset performance remedies can be clearly identified, policies
      and procedures, definitions, remedies and actions relating to delinquency,
      default, dilution or restructuring of underlying debtors should be provided in
      clear and consistent terms, such that the sponsor can clearly identify debt
      forgiveness, forbearance, payment holidays, restructuring, dilution and other
      asset performance remedies on an ongoing basis.

40.143 For each transaction which qualifies as a securitisation, the sponsor should ensure
      it receives both before the conduit acquires a beneficial interest in the transaction
      and on an ongoing basis, the liability cash flow analysis or information on the
      cash flow provisions allowing appropriate analysis of the cash flow waterfall of
      these transactions.




Criterion B11: Voting and enforcement rights (conduit level)
40.144 To provide clarity to investors, the sponsor should make sufficient information
      available in order for investors to understand their enforcement rights on the
      underlying credit claims or receivables in the event of insolvency of the sponsor.


Criterion B11: Voting and enforcement rights (transaction level)
40.145 For each transaction, the sponsor should ensure that, in particular upon
      insolvency of the seller or where the obligor is in default on its obligation, all
      voting and enforcement rights related to the credit claims or receivables are, if
      applicable:

       (1) transferred to the conduit; and

       (2) clearly defined under all circumstances, including with respect to the rights
           of the conduit versus other parties with an interest (eg sellers), where
           relevant.


Criterion B12: Documentation, disclosure and legal review (conduit
level only)
40.146 To help investors understand fully the terms, conditions, and legal information
      prior to investing in a new programme offering and to ensure that this
      information is set out in a clear and effective manner for all programme offerings,
      the sponsor should ensure that sufficient initial offering documentation for the
      ABCP programme is provided to investors (and readily available to potential
      investors on a continuous basis) within a reasonably sufficient period of time
      prior to issuance, such that the investor is provided with full disclosure of the
      legal information and comprehensive risk factors needed to make informed
      investment decisions. These should be composed such that readers can readily
      find, understand and use relevant information.

40.147 The sponsor should ensure that the terms and documentation of a conduit and
      the ABCP programme it issues are reviewed and verified by an appropriately
      experienced and independent legal practice prior to publication and in the case
      of material changes. The sponsor should notify investors in a timely fashion of
      any changes in such documents that have an impact on the structural risks in the
      ABCP programme.




Additional requirement for Criterion B12
40.148 To understand fully the terms, conditions and legal information prior to including
      a new transaction in the ABCP conduit and ensure that this information is set out
      in a clear and effective manner, the sponsor should ensure that it receives
      sufficient initial offering documentation for each transaction and that it is
      provided within a reasonably sufficient period of time prior to the inclusion in the
      conduit, with full disclosure of the legal information and comprehensive risk
      factors needed to supply liquidity and/or credit support facilities. The initial
      offering document for each transaction should be composed such that readers
      can readily find, understand and use relevant information. The sponsor should
      also ensure that the terms and documentation of a transaction are reviewed and
      verified by an appropriately experienced and independent legal practice prior to
      the acquisition of the transaction and in the case of material changes.


Criterion B13: Alignment of interest (conduit level only)
40.149 In order to align the interests of those responsible for the underwriting of the
      credit claims and receivables with those of investors, a material net economic
      exposure should be retained by the sellers or the sponsor at transaction level, or
      by the sponsor at the conduit level. Ultimately, the sponsor should disclose to
      investors how and where a material net economic exposure is retained by the
      seller at transaction level or by the sponsor at transaction or conduit level, and
      demonstrate the existence of a financial incentive in the performance of the
      assets.


Criterion B14: Cap on maturity transformation (conduit level only)
40.150 Maturity transformation undertaken through ABCP conduits should be limited.
      The sponsor should verify and disclose to investors that the weighted average
      maturity of all the transactions financed under the ABCP conduit is three years or
      less. This number should be calculated as the higher of:

       (1) the exposure-weighted average residual maturity of the conduit’s beneficial
           interests held or the assets purchased by the conduit in order to finance the
           transactions of the conduit; and




       (2) the exposure-weighted average maturity of the underlying assets financed
           by the conduit calculated by:

            (a) taking an exposure-weighted average of residual maturities of the
                underlying assets in each pool; and


            (b) taking an exposure-weighted average across the conduit of the pool-
                level averages as calculated in Step 2a.


 Including purchased securitisation notes, loans, asset-backed deposits
                   and purchased credit claims and/or receivables held directly on the
                   conduit’s balance sheet.

 Where it is impractical for the sponsor to calculate the pool-level
                   weighted average maturity in Step 2a (because the pool is very
                   granular or dynamic), sponsors may instead use the maximum
                   maturity of the assets in the pool as defined in the legal agreements
                   governing the pool (eg investment guidelines).



Criterion C15: Financial institution (conduit level only)
40.151 The sponsor should be a financial institution that is licensed to take deposits from
      the public, and is subject to appropriate prudential standards and levels of
      supervision. National supervisors should decide what prudential standards and
      level of supervision is appropriate for their domestic banks. For internationally
      active banks, prudential standards and the level of supervision should be in
      accordance with the Basel framework. Subject to the determination of the
      national supervisor, in addition to risk-based regulatory capital this may include
      liquidity, leverage capital requirements and other requirements, such as related to
      the governance of banks.


Criterion C16: Fiduciary and contractual responsibilities (conduit level)
40.152 The sponsor should, based on the representations received from seller(s) and all
      other parties responsible for originating and servicing the asset pools, make
      representations and warranties to investors that:

       (1) the various criteria defined at the level of each underlying transaction are
           met, and explain how;




       (2) seller(s)’s policies, procedures and risk management controls are well-
           documented, adhere to good market practices and comply with the relevant
           regulatory regimes; and that strong systems and reporting capabilities are in
           place to ensure appropriate origination and servicing of the underlying
           assets.

40.153 The sponsor should be able to demonstrate expertise in providing liquidity and
      credit support in the context of ABCP conduits, and is supported by a
      management team with extensive industry experience. The sponsor should at all
      times act in accordance with reasonable and prudent standards. Policies,
      procedures and risk management controls of the sponsor should be well
      documented and the sponsor should adhere to good market practices and
      relevant regulatory regime. There should be strong systems and reporting
      capabilities in place at the sponsor. The party or parties with fiduciary
      responsibility should act on a timely basis in the best interests of the investors.


Criterion C16: Fiduciary and contractual responsibilities (transaction
level)
40.154 The sponsor should ensure that it receives representations from the sellers(s) and
      all other parties responsible for originating and servicing the asset pools that they:

       (1) have well-documented procedures and policies in place to ensure
           appropriate servicing of the underlying assets;

       (2) have expertise in the origination of same or similar assets to those in the
           asset pools;

       (3) have extensive servicing and workout expertise, thorough legal and collateral
           knowledge and a proven track record in loss mitigation for the same or
           similar assets;

       (4) have expertise in the servicing of the underlying credit claims or receivables;
           and

       (5) are supported by a management team with extensive industry experience.


Additional requirement for Criterion C16
40.155 In assessing whether “strong systems and reporting capabilities are in place”, well
      documented policies, procedures and risk management controls, as well as
      strong systems and reporting capabilities, may be substantiated by a third-party
      review for sellers that are non-banking entities.




Criterion C17: Transparency to investors (conduit level)
40.156 The sponsor should ensure that the contractual obligations, duties and
      responsibilities of all key parties to the conduit, both those with a fiduciary
      responsibility and the ancillary service providers, are defined clearly both in the
      initial offering and any relevant underlying documentation of the conduit and the
      ABCP programme it issues. The “underlying documentation” does not refer to the
      documentation of the underlying transactions.

40.157 The sponsor should also make representations and warranties to investors that
      the duties and responsibilities of all key parties are clearly defined at transaction
      level.

40.158 The sponsor should ensure that the initial offering documentation disclosed to
      investors contains adequate provisions regarding the replacement of key
      counterparties of the conduit (eg bank account providers and derivatives
      counterparties) in the event of failure or non-performance or insolvency or
      deterioration of creditworthiness of any such counterparty.

40.159 The sponsor should also make representations and warranties to investors that
      provisions regarding the replacement of key counterparties at transaction level
      are well-documented.

40.160 The sponsor should provide sufficient information to investors about the liquidity
      facility(ies) and credit support provided to the ABCP programme for them to
      understand its functioning and key risks.


Criterion C17: Transparency to investors (transaction level)
40.161 The sponsor should conduct due diligence with respect to the transactions on
      behalf of the investors. To assist the sponsor in meeting its fiduciary and
      contractual obligations, the duties and responsibilities of all key parties to all
      transactions (both those with a fiduciary responsibility and of the ancillary service
      providers) should be defined clearly in all underlying documentation of these
      transactions and made available to the sponsor.

40.162 The sponsor should ensure that provisions regarding the replacement of key
      counterparties (in particular the servicer or liquidity provider) in the event of
      failure or non-performance or insolvency or other deterioration of any such
      counterparty for the transactions are well-documented (in the documentation of
      these individual transactions).




40.163 The sponsor should ensure that for all transactions the performance reports
      include all of the following: the transactions’ income and disbursements, such as
      scheduled principal, redemption principal, scheduled interest, prepaid principal,
      past due interest and fees and charges, delinquent, defaulted, restructured and
      diluted amounts, as well as accurate accounting for amounts attributable to
      principal and interest deficiency ledgers.


Criterion D18: Credit risk of underlying exposures (transaction level
only)
40.164 At the date of acquisition of the assets, the underlying exposures have to meet
      the conditions under the Standardised Approach for credit risk and, after account
      is taken of any eligible credit risk mitigation, be assigned a risk weight equal to or
      smaller than:

       (1) 40% on a value-weighted average exposure basis for the portfolio where the
           exposures are loans secured by residential mortgages or fully guaranteed
           residential loans;

       (2) 50% on an individual exposure basis where the exposure is a loan secured by
           a commercial mortgage;

       (3) 75% on an individual exposure basis where the exposure is a retail exposure;
           or

       (4) 100% on an individual exposure basis for any other exposure.


Criterion D19: Granularity of the pool (conduit level only)
40.165 At the date of acquisition of any assets securitised by one of the conduits'
      transactions, the aggregated value of all exposures to a single obligor at that
      date shall not exceed 2% of the aggregated outstanding exposure value of all
      exposures in the programme.




     In jurisdictions with structurally concentrated corporate loan markets,
                 subject to ex ante supervisory approval and only for corporate
                 exposures, the applicable maximum concentration threshold could be
                 increased to 3% if the sellers or sponsor retain subordinated tranche(s)
                 that form loss-absorbing credit enhancement, as defined in CRE44.16,
                 and which cover at least the first 10% of losses. These tranche(s)
                 retained by the sellers or sponsor shall not be eligible for the STC
                 capital treatment.




                                 CRE41
                                 Securitisation: standardised
                                 approach
                                 This chapter describes how to calculate capital
                                 requirements for securitisation exposures using a
                                 standardised approach (SEC-SA).


                                 Standardised approach (SEC-SA)
41.1   To calculate capital requirements for a securitisation exposure to a standardised
       approach (SA) pool using the securitisation standardised approach (SEC-SA), a
       bank would use a supervisory formula and the following bank-supplied inputs:
       the SA capital charge had the underlying exposures not been securitised (KSA);
       the ratio of delinquent underlying exposures to total underlying exposures in the
       securitisation pool (W); the tranche attachment point (A); and the tranche
       detachment point (D). The inputs A and D are defined in CRE44.14 and CRE44.15
       respectively. Where the only difference between exposures to a transaction is
       related to maturity, A and D will be the same. KSA and W are defined in CRE41.2
       to CRE41.4 and CRE41.6.

41.2   KSA is defined as the weighted-average capital charge of the entire portfolio of
       underlying exposures, calculated using the risk-weighted asset amounts in CRE20
       in relation to the sum of the exposure amounts of underlying exposures,
       multiplied by 8%. This calculation should reflect the effects of any credit risk
       mitigant that is applied to the underlying exposures (either individually or to the
       entire pool), and hence benefits all of the securitisation exposures. KSA is
       expressed as a decimal between zero and one (that is, a weighted-average risk
       weight of 100% means that KSA would equal 0.08).

41.3   For structures involving a special purpose entity (SPE), all of the SPE’s exposures
       related to the securitisation are to be treated as exposures in the pool. Exposures
       related to the securitisation that should be treated as exposures in the pool
       include assets in which the SPE may have invested, comprising reserve accounts,
       cash collateral accounts and claims against counterparties resulting from interest
       swaps or currency swaps. Notwithstanding, the bank can exclude the SPE’s
       exposures from the pool for capital calculation purposes if the bank can
       demonstrate to its national supervisor that the risk does not affect its particular
       securitisation exposure or that the risk is immaterial – for example, because it has
       been mitigated.




 In particular, in the case of swaps other than credit derivatives, the
                   numerator of KSA must include the positive current market value times
                   the risk weight of the swap provider times 8%. In contrast, the
                   denominator should not take into account such a swap, as such a swap
                   would not provide a credit enhancement to any tranche.

  Certain best market practices can eliminate or at least significantly
                   reduce the potential risk from a default of a swap provider. Examples of
                   such features could be cash collateralisation of the market value in
                   combination with an agreement of prompt additional payments in
                   case of an increase of the market value of the swap and minimum
                   credit quality of the swap provider with the obligation to post collateral
                   or present an alternative swap provider without any costs for the SPE
                   in the event of a credit deterioration on the part of the original swap
                   provider. If national supervisors are satisfied with these risk mitigants
                   and accept that the contribution of these exposures to the risk of the
                   holder of a securitisation exposure is insignificant, supervisors may
                   allow the bank to exclude these exposures from the KSA calculation.



41.4   In the case of funded synthetic securitisations, any proceeds of the issuances of
       credit-linked notes or other funded obligations of the SPE that serve as collateral
       for the repayment of the securitisation exposure in question, and for which the
       bank cannot demonstrate to its national supervisor that they are immaterial, have
       to be included in the calculation of KSA if the default risk of the collateral is
       subject to the tranched loss allocation.


 As in the case of swaps other than credit derivatives, the numerator of K
                   SA
                      (ie weighted-average capital charge of the entire portfolio of
                   underlying exposures) must include the exposure amount of the
                   collateral times its risk weight times 8%, but the denominator should
                   be calculated without recognition of the collateral.


41.5   In cases where a bank has set aside a specific provision or has a non-refundable
       purchase price discount on an exposure in the pool, KSA must be calculated using
       the gross amount of the exposure without the specific provision and/or non-
       refundable purchase price discount.




41.6

       The variable W equals the ratio of the sum of the nominal amount of delinquent
       underlying exposures (as defined in CRE41.7) to the nominal amount of
       underlying exposures.

41.7   Delinquent underlying exposures are underlying exposures that are 90 days or
       more past due, subject to bankruptcy or insolvency proceedings, in the process
       of foreclosure, held as real estate owned, or in default, where default is defined
       within the securitisation deal documents.

41.8   The inputs KSA and W are used as inputs to calculate KA, as follows:




41.9   In case a bank does not know the delinquency status, as defined above, for no
       more than 5% of underlying exposures in the pool, the bank may still use the SEC-
       SA by adjusting its calculation of KA as follows:




41.10 If the bank does not know the delinquency status for more than 5%, the
      securitisation exposure must be risk weighted at 1250%.

41.11 Capital requirements are calculated under the SEC-SA as follows, where KSSFA(KA)
       is the capital requirement per unit of the securitisation exposure and the variables
       a, u, and l are defined as:






41.12 The supervisory parameter p in the context of the SEC-SA is set equal to 1 for a
      securitisation exposure that is not a resecuritisation exposure.

41.13 The risk weight assigned to a securitisation exposure when applying the SEC-SA
      would be calculated as follows:




       (1) When D for a securitisation exposure is less than or equal to KA, the
           exposure must be assigned a risk weight of 1250%.

       (2) When A for a securitisation exposure is greater than or equal to KA, the risk

           weight of the exposure, expressed as a percentage, would equal
           times 12.5.

       (3) When A is less than KA and D is greater than KA, the applicable risk weight is

           a weighted average of 1250% and 12.5 times             according to the
           following formula:




41.14 The risk weight for market risk hedges such as currency or interest rate swaps will
      be inferred from a securitisation exposure that is pari passu to the swaps or, if
      such an exposure does not exist, from the next subordinated tranche.

41.15 The resulting risk weight is subject to a floor risk weight of 15%. Moreover, when
      a bank applies the SEC-SA to an unrated junior exposure in a transaction where
      the more senior tranches (exposures) are rated and therefore no rating can be
      inferred for the junior exposure, the resulting risk weight under SEC-SA for the
      junior unrated exposure shall not be lower than the risk weight for the next more
      senior rated exposure.


Resecuritisation exposures
41.16 For resecuritisation exposures, banks must apply the SEC-SA specified in CRE41.1
      to CRE41.15, with the following adjustments:

       (1) the capital requirement of the underlying securitisation exposures is
           calculated using the securitisation framework;

       (2) delinquencies (W) are set to zero for any exposure to a securitisation tranche
           in the underlying pool; and

       (3) the supervisory parameter p is set equal to 1.5, rather than 1 as for
           securitisation exposures.




41.17 If the underlying portfolio of a resecuritisation consists in a pool of exposures to
      securitisation tranches and to other assets, one should separate the exposures to
      securitisation tranches from exposures to assets that are not securitisations. The K

       A parameter should be calculated for each subset individually, applying separate
       W parameters; these calculated in accordance with CRE41.6 and CRE41.7 in the
       subsets where the exposures are to assets that are not securitisation tranches,
       and set to zero where the exposures are to securitisation tranches. The KA for the
       resecuritisation exposure is then obtained as the nominal exposure weighted-
       average of the KA’s for each subset considered.

41.18 The resulting risk weight is subject to a floor risk weight of 100%.

41.19 The caps described in CRE40.50 to CRE40.55 cannot be applied to resecuritisation
      exposures.


Alternative capital treatment for term STC securitisations and short-
term STC securitisations meeting the STC criteria for capital purposes
41.20 Securitisation transactions that are assessed as simple, transparent and
      comparable (STC)-compliant for capital purposes as defined in CRE40.67 can be
      subject to capital requirements under the securitisation framework, taking into
      account that, when the SEC-SA is used, CRE41.21 and CRE41.22 are applicable
      instead of CRE41.12 and CRE41.15 respectively.

41.21 The supervisory parameter p in the context of the SEC-SA is set equal to 0.5 for
      an exposure to an STC securitisation.

41.22 The resulting risk weight is subject to a floor risk weight of 10% for senior
      tranches, and 15% for non-senior tranches.




                                 CRE42
                                 Securitisation: External-
                                 ratings-based approach (SEC-
                                 ERBA)
                                 This chapter describes how to calculate capital
                                 requirements for securitisation exposures that
                                 are externally rated or for which an inferred
                                 rating is available (SEC-ERBA).


External-ratings-based approach (SEC-ERBA)
42.1   For securitisation exposures that are externally rated, or for which an inferred
       rating is available, risk-weighted assets under the securitisation external ratings-
       based approach (SEC-ERBA) will be determined by multiplying securitisation
       exposure amounts (as defined in CRE40.19) by the appropriate risk weights as
       determined by CRE42.2 to CRE42.7, provided that the operational criteria in
       CRE42.8 to CRE42.10 are met.


 The rating designations used in Tables 1 and 2 are for illustrative
                         purposes only and do not indicate any preference for, or endorsement
                         of, any particular external assessment system.


42.2   For exposures with short-term ratings, or when an inferred rating based on a
       short-term rating is available, the following risk weights will apply:

           ERBA risk weights for short-term ratings                                     Table 1


           External credit                                                          All other
                                         A-1/P-1       A-2/P-2        A-3/P-3
           assessment                                                                ratings

           Risk weight                     15%           50%           100%          1250%



42.3   For exposures with long-term ratings, or when an inferred rating based on a long-
       term rating is available, the risk weights depend on

       (1) the external rating grade or an available inferred rating;

       (2) the seniority of the position;

       (3) the tranche maturity; and

       (4) in the case of non-senior tranches, the tranche thickness.

42.4   Specifically, for exposures with long-term ratings, risk weights will be determined
       according to Table 2 and will be adjusted for tranche maturity (calculated
       according to CRE40.22 and CRE40.23), and tranche thickness for non-senior
       tranches according to CRE42.5.



        ERBA risk weights for long-term ratings                                    Table 2


                                     Senior tranche          Non-senior (thin) tranche

             Rating               Tranche maturity (MT)       Tranche maturity (MT)


                                1 year            5 years    1 year            5 years

              AAA                15%               20%        15%               70%

              AA+                15%               30%        15%               90%

               AA                25%               40%        30%              120%

              AA-                30%               45%        40%              140%

               A+                40%               50%        60%              160%

                A                50%               65%        80%              180%

               A-                60%               70%       120%              210%

              BBB+               75%               90%       170%              260%

              BBB                90%              105%       220%              310%

              BBB-               120%             140%       330%              420%

              BB+                140%             160%       470%              580%

               BB                160%             180%       620%              760%

              BB-                200%             225%       750%              860%

               B+                250%             280%       900%              950%

                B                310%             340%       1050%             1050%

               B-                380%             420%       1130%             1130%

        CCC+/CCC/CCC-            460%             505%       1250%             1250%

          Below CCC-            1250%             1250%      1250%             1250%



42.5   The risk weight assigned to a securitisation exposure when applying the SEC-
       ERBA is calculated as follows:




       (1) To account for tranche maturity, banks shall use linear interpolation between
           the risk weights for one and five years.

       (2) To account for tranche thickness, banks shall calculate the risk weight for non-
           senior tranches as follows, where T equals tranche thickness, and is measured as D
           minus A, as defined, respectively, in CRE44.15 and CRE44.14:



42.6   In the case of market risk hedges such as currency or interest rate swaps, the risk
       weight will be inferred from a securitisation exposure that is pari passu to the
       swaps or, if such an exposure does not exist, from the next subordinated tranche.

42.7   The resulting risk weight is subject to a floor risk weight of 15%. In addition, the
       resulting risk weight should never be lower than the risk weight corresponding to
       a senior tranche of the same securitisation with the same rating and maturity.


Operational requirements for use of external credit assessments
42.8   The following operational criteria concerning the use of external credit
       assessments apply in the securitisation framework:

       (1) To be eligible for risk-weighting purposes, the external credit assessment
           must take into account and reflect the entire amount of credit risk exposure
           the bank has with regard to all payments owed to it. For example, if a bank is
           owed both principal and interest, the assessment must fully take into
           account and reflect the credit risk associated with timely repayment of both
           principal and interest.

       (2) The external credit assessments must be from an eligible external credit
           assessment institution (ECAI) as recognised by the bank’s national supervisor
           in accordance with CRE21 with the following exception. In contrast with
           CRE21.2(3), an eligible credit assessment, procedures, methodologies,
           assumptions and the key elements underlying the assessments must be
           publicly available, on a non-selective basis and free of charge. In other
           words, a rating must be published in an accessible form and included in the
           ECAI’s transition matrix. Also, loss and cash flow analysis as well as sensitivity
           of ratings to changes in the underlying rating assumptions should be
           publicly available. Consequently, ratings that are made available only to the
           parties to a transaction do not satisfy this requirement.

       (3) Eligible ECAIs must have a demonstrated expertise in assessing
           securitisations, which may be evidenced by strong market acceptance.




     (4) Where two or more eligible ECAIs can be used and these assess the credit
         risk of the same securitisation exposure differently, CRE21.6 to CRE21.8 will
         apply.

     (5) Where credit risk mitigation (CRM) is provided to specific underlying
         exposures or the entire pool by an eligible guarantor as defined in CRE22
         and is reflected in the external credit assessment assigned to a securitisation
         exposure(s), the risk weight associated with that external credit assessment
         should be used. In order to avoid any double-counting, no additional capital
         recognition is permitted. If the CRM provider is not recognised as an eligible
         guarantor under CRE22, the covered securitisation exposures should be
         treated as unrated.

     (6) In the situation where a credit risk mitigant solely protects a specific
         securitisation exposure within a given structure (eg asset-backed security
         tranche) and this protection is reflected in the external credit assessment, the
         bank must treat the exposure as if it is unrated and then apply the CRM
         treatment outlined in CRE22 or in the foundation internal ratings-based (IRB)
         approach of CRE30 to CRE36, to recognise the hedge.

     (7) A bank is not permitted to use any external credit assessment for risk-
         weighting purposes where the assessment is at least partly based on
         unfunded support provided by the bank. For example, if a bank buys asset-
         backed commercial paper (ABCP) where it provides an unfunded
         securitisation exposure extended to the ABCP programme (eg liquidity
         facility or credit enhancement), and that exposure plays a role in determining
         the credit assessment on the ABCP, the bank must treat the ABCP as if it
         were not rated. The bank must continue to hold capital against the other
         securitisation exposures it provides (eg against the liquidity facility and/or
         credit enhancement).


 Where the eligible credit assessment is not publicly available free of
                 charge, the ECAI should provide an adequate justification, within its
                 own publicly available code of conduct, in accordance with the “comply
                 or explain” nature of the International Organization of Securities
                 Commissions’ Code of Conduct Fundamentals for Credit Rating
                 Agencies.




Operational requirements for inferred ratings
42.9   In accordance with the hierarchy of approaches determined in CRE40.41 to CRE40.
       47, a bank must infer a rating for an unrated position and use the SEC-ERBA
       provided that the requirements set out in CRE42.10 are met. These requirements
       are intended to ensure that the unrated position is pari passu or senior in all
       respects to an externally-rated securitisation exposure termed the “reference
       securitisation exposure”.

42.10 The following operational requirements must be satisfied to recognise inferred
      ratings:

       (1) The reference securitisation exposure (eg asset-backed security) must rank
           pari passu or be subordinate in all respects to the unrated securitisation
           exposure. Credit enhancements, if any, must be taken into account when
           assessing the relative subordination of the unrated exposure and the
           reference securitisation exposure. For example, if the reference securitisation
           exposure benefits from any third-party guarantees or other credit
           enhancements that are not available to the unrated exposure, then the latter
           may not be assigned an inferred rating based on the reference securitisation
           exposure.

       (2) The maturity of the reference securitisation exposure must be equal to or
           longer than that of the unrated exposure.

       (3) On an ongoing basis, any inferred rating must be updated continuously to
           reflect any subordination of the unrated position or changes in the external
           rating of the reference securitisation exposure.

       (4) The external rating of the reference securitisation exposure must satisfy the
           general requirements for recognition of external ratings as delineated in
           CRE42.8.


Alternative capital treatment for term STC securitisations and short-
term STC securitisations meeting the STC criteria for capital purposes
42.11 Securitisation transactions that are assessed as simple, transparent and
      comparable (STC)-compliant for capital purposes as defined in CRE40.67 can be
      subject to capital requirements under the securitisation framework, taking into
      account that, when the SEC-ERBA is used, CRE42.12, CRE42.13 and CRE42.14 are
      applicable instead of CRE42.2, CRE42.4 and CRE42.7 respectively.

42.12 For exposures with short-term ratings, or when an inferred rating based on a
      short-term rating is available, the following risk weights will apply:



       ERBA STC risk weights for short-term ratings                           Table 3


       External credit                                                    All other
                                     A-1/P-1          A-2/P-2   A-3/P-3
       assessment                                                          ratings

       Risk weight                     10%             30%       60%       1250%




42.13 For exposures with long-term ratings, risk weights will be determined according
      to Table 4 and will be adjusted for tranche maturity (calculated according to
      CRE40.22 and CRE40.23), and tranche thickness for non-senior tranches according
      to CRE42.5 and CRE42.6.




        ERBA STC risk weights for long-term ratings                                   Table 4


                                     Senior tranche             Non-senior (thin) tranche

             Rating              Tranche maturity (MT)           Tranche maturity (MT)


                                1 year            5 years       1 year            5 years

              AAA                10%                  10%        15%               40%

              AA+                10%                  15%        15%               55%

               AA                15%                  20%        15%               70%

              AA-                15%                  25%        25%               80%

               A+                20%                  30%        35%               95%

               A                 30%                  40%        60%              135%

               A-                35%                  40%        95%              170%

             BBB+                45%                  55%       150%              225%

              BBB                55%                  65%       180%              255%

              BBB-               70%                  85%       270%              345%

              BB+               120%                  135%      405%              500%

               BB               135%                  155%      535%              655%

              BB-               170%                  195%      645%              740%


               B+               225%                  250%      810%              855%

                B               280%                  305%      945%              945%

               B-               340%                  380%      1015%             1015%

        CCC+/CCC/CCC-           415%                  455%      1250%             1250%

           Below CCC-           1250%             1250%         1250%             1250%




42.14 The resulting risk weight is subject to a floor risk weight of 10% for senior
      tranches, and 15% for non-senior tranches.




                                 CRE43
                                 Securitisation: Internal
                                 assessment approach (SEC-
                                 IAA)
                                 This chapter describes how to calculate capital
                                 requirements for short-term securitisation
                                 exposures according to the internal assessment
                                 by the bank of the credit quality of the
                                 exposures (SEC-IAA).


                                 
Internal assessment approach (SEC-IAA)
43.1   Subject to supervisory approval, a bank may use its internal assessments of the
       credit quality of its securitisation exposures extended to ABCP programmes (eg
       liquidity facilities and credit enhancements) provided that the bank has at least
       one approved IRB model (which does not need to be applicable to the securitised
       exposures) and if the bank's internal assessment process meets the operational
       requirements set out below. Internal assessments of exposures provided to ABCP
       programmes must be mapped to equivalent external ratings of an ECAI. Those
       rating equivalents are used to determine the appropriate risk weights under the
       SEC-ERBA for the exposures.

43.2   A bank's internal assessment process must meet the following operational
       requirements in order to use internal assessments in determining the IRB capital
       requirement arising from liquidity facilities, credit enhancements, or other
       exposures extended to an ABCP programme:

       (1) For the unrated exposure to qualify for the internal assessment approach
           (SEC-IAA), the ABCP must be externally rated. The ABCP itself is subject to
           the SEC-ERBA.

       (2) The internal assessment of the credit quality of a securitisation exposure to
           the ABCP programme must be based on ECAI criteria for the asset type
           purchased, and must be the equivalent of at least investment grade when
           initially assigned to an exposure. In addition, the internal assessment must
           be used in the bank's internal risk management processes, including
           management information and economic capital systems, and generally must
           meet all the relevant requirements of the IRB framework.

       (3) In order for banks to use the SEC-IAA, their supervisors must be satisfied

           (a) that the ECAI meets the ECAI eligibility criteria outlined in CRE21 and

           (b) with the ECAI rating methodologies used in the process.

       (4) Banks demonstrate to the satisfaction of their supervisors how these internal
           assessments correspond to the relevant ECAI's standards. For instance, when
           calculating the credit enhancement level in the context of the SEC-IAA,
           supervisors may, if warranted, disallow on a full or partial basis any seller-
           provided recourse guarantees or excess spread, or any other first-loss credit
           enhancements that provide limited protection to the bank.




     (5) The bank's internal assessment process must identify gradations of risk.
         Internal assessments must correspond to the external ratings of ECAIs so
         that supervisors can determine which internal assessment corresponds to
         each external rating category of the ECAIs.




     (6) The bank's internal assessment process, particularly the stress factors for
         determining credit enhancement requirements, must be at least as
         conservative as the publicly available rating criteria of the major ECAIs that
         are externally rating the ABCP programme's commercial paper for the asset
         type being purchased by the programme. However, banks should consider,
         to some extent, all publicly available ECAI rating methodologies in
         developing their internal assessments.

         (a) In the case where the commercial paper issued by an ABCP programme
             is externally rated by two or more ECAIs and the different ECAIs'
             benchmark stress factors require different levels of credit enhancement
             to achieve the same external rating equivalent, the bank must apply the
             ECAI stress factor that requires the most conservative or highest level of
             credit protection. For example, if one ECAI required enhancement of 2.5
             to 3.5 times historical losses for an asset type to obtain a single A rating
             equivalent and another required two to three times historical losses, the
             bank must use the higher range of stress factors in determining the
             appropriate level of seller-provided credit enhancement.

         (b) When selecting ECAIs to externally rate an ABCP, a bank must not
             choose only those ECAIs that generally have relatively less restrictive
             rating methodologies. In addition, if there are changes in the
             methodology of one of the selected ECAIs, including the stress factors,
             that adversely affect the external rating of the programme's commercial
             paper, then the revised rating methodology must be considered in
             evaluating whether the internal assessments assigned to ABCP
             programme exposures are in need of revision.

         (c)   A bank cannot utilise an ECAI's rating methodology to derive an internal
               assessment if the ECAI's process or rating criteria are not publicly
               available. However, banks should consider the non-publicly available
               methodology - to the extent that they have access to such information -
               in developing their internal assessments, particularly if it is more
               conservative than the publicly available criteria.

         (d) In general, if the ECAI rating methodologies for an asset or exposure are
             not publicly available, then the IAA may not be used. However, in
               certain instances - for example, for new or uniquely structured
               transactions, which are not currently addressed by the rating criteria of
               an ECAI rating the programme's commercial paper - a bank may discuss
               the specific transaction with its supervisor to determine whether the IAA
               may be applied to the related exposures




     (7) Internal or external auditors, an ECAI, or the bank's internal credit review or
         risk management function must perform regular reviews of the internal

         assessment process and assess the validity of those internal assessments. If
         the bank's internal audit, credit review or risk management functions
         perform the reviews of the internal assessment process, then these functions
         must be independent of the ABCP programme business line, as well as the
         underlying customer relationships.

     (8) The bank must track the performance of its internal assessments over time to
         evaluate the performance of the assigned internal assessments and make
         adjustments, as necessary, to its assessment process when the performance
         of the exposures routinely diverges from the assigned internal assessments
         on those exposures.

     (9) The ABCP programme must have credit and investment guidelines, ie
         underwriting standards, for the ABCP programme. In the consideration of an
         asset purchase, the ABCP programme (ie the programme administrator)
         should develop an outline of the structure of the purchase transaction.
         Factors that should be discussed include the type of asset being purchased;
         type and monetary value of the exposures arising from the provision of
         liquidity facilities and credit enhancements; loss waterfall; and legal and
         economic isolation of the transferred assets from the entity selling the assets.

     (10) A credit analysis of the asset seller's risk profile must be performed and
          should consider, for example, past and expected future financial
          performance; current market position; expected future competitiveness;
          leverage, cash flow and interest coverage; and debt rating. In addition, a
          review of the seller's underwriting standards, servicing capabilities and
          collection processes should be performed.

     (11) The ABCP programme's underwriting policy must establish minimum asset
          eligibility criteria that, among other things:

           (a) exclude the purchase of assets that are significantly past due or
               defaulted;

           (b) limit excess concentration to individual obligor or geographical area;
               and

           (c)   limit the tenor of the assets to be purchased.




       (12) The ABCP programme should have collection processes established that
            consider the operational capability and credit quality of the servicer. The
            programme should mitigate to the extent possible seller/servicer risk
            through various methods, such as triggers based on current credit quality
            that would preclude commingling of funds and impose lockbox
            arrangements that would help ensure the continuity of payments to the
            ABCP programme.

       (13) The aggregate estimate of loss on an asset pool that the ABCP programme
            is considering purchasing must consider all sources of potential risk, such
            as credit and dilution risk. If the seller-provided credit enhancement is sized
            based on only credit-related losses, then a separate reserve should be
            established for dilution risk, if dilution risk is material for the particular
            exposure pool. In addition, in sizing the required enhancement level, the
            bank should review several years of historical information, including losses,
            delinquencies, dilutions and the turnover rate of the receivables.
            Furthermore, the bank should evaluate the characteristics of the underlying
            asset pool (eg weighted-average credit score) and should identify any
            concentrations to an individual obligor or geographical region and the
            granularity of the asset pool.

       (14) The ABCP programme must incorporate structural features into the
            purchase of assets in order to mitigate potential credit deterioration of the
            underlying portfolio. Such features may include wind-down triggers specific
            to a pool of exposures.

43.3   The exposure amount of the securitisation exposure to the ABCP programme
       must be assigned to the risk weight in the SEC-ERBA appropriate to the credit
       rating equivalent assigned to the bank's exposure.

43.4   If a bank's internal assessment process is no longer considered adequate, the
       bank's supervisor may preclude the bank from applying the SEC-IAA to its ABCP
       exposures, both existing and newly originated, for determining the appropriate
       capital treatment until the bank has remedied the deficiencies. In this instance,
       the bank must revert to the SEC-SA described in CRE41.1 to CRE41.15.




                                 CRE44
                                 Securitisation: Internal-
                                 ratings-based approach
                                 This chapter describes how to calculate capital
                                 requirements for securitisation exposures under
                                 the SEC-IRBA.


                                 
Internal ratings-based approach (SEC-IRBA)
44.1   To calculate capital requirements for a securitisation exposure to an internal
       ratings-based (IRB) pool, a bank must use the securitisation internal ratings-
       based approach (SEC-IRBA) and the following bank-supplied inputs: the IRB
       capital charge had the underlying exposures not been securitised (KIRB), the
       tranche attachment point (A), the tranche detachment point (D) and the
       supervisory parameter p, as defined below. Where the only difference between
       exposures to a transaction is related to maturity, A and D will be the same.


Definition of KIRB

44.2   KIRB is the ratio of the following measures, expressed in decimal form (eg a
       capital charge equal to 15% of the pool would be expressed as 0.15):

       (1) the IRB capital requirement (including the expected loss portion and, where
           applicable, dilution risk as discussed in CRE44.11 to CRE44.13) for the
           underlying exposures in the pool; to

       (2) the exposure amount of the pool (eg the sum of drawn amounts related to
           securitised exposures plus the exposure-at-default associated with undrawn
           commitments related to securitised exposures).

 KIRB must also include the unexpected loss and the expected loss
                   associated with defaulted exposures in the underlying pool.

The scaling factor of 1.06 referenced in CRE30.4 is applied to the
                   unexpected loss portion of the calculation of KIRB. The calculation of K

                   IRB
                         and the calculation of caps as determined in CRE40.50 to CRE40.55
                   are the only occurrence of use of the scaling factor in the securitisation
                   framework, ie the risk-weighted assets resulting from the different
                   approaches (SEC-IRBA, SEC-ERBA or SEC-SA) are not subject to the
                   scaling factor.

 Undrawn balances should not be included in the calculation of KIRB in
                   cases where only the drawn balances of revolving facilities have been
                   securitised.




44.3   Notwithstanding the clarification in CRE40.46 and CRE40.47 for mixed pools,
       CRE44.2(1) must be calculated in accordance with applicable minimum IRB
       standards in CRE30 to CRE36 as if the exposures in the pool were held directly by
       the bank. This calculation should reflect the effects of any credit risk mitigant that
       is applied on the underlying exposures (either individually or to the entire pool),
       and hence benefits all of the securitisation exposures.

44.4   For structures involving a special purpose entity (SPE), all of the SPE's exposures
       related to the securitisation are to be treated as exposures in the pool. Exposures
       related to the securitisation that should be treated as exposures in the pool could
       include assets in which the SPE may have invested a reserve account, such as a
       cash collateral account or claims against counterparties resulting from interest
       swaps or currency swaps. Notwithstanding, the bank can exclude the SPE's
       exposures from the pool for capital calculation purposes if the bank can
       demonstrate to its national supervisor that the risk of the SPE's exposures is
       immaterial (for example, because it has been mitigated) or that it does not affect
       the bank's securitisation exposure.


In particular, in the case of swaps other than credit derivatives, the
                   numerator of KIRB must include the positive current market value times
                   the risk weight of the swap provider times 8%. In contrast, the
                   denominator should not take into account such a swap, as such a swap
                   would not provide a credit enhancement to any tranche.

  Certain best market practices can eliminate or at least significantly
                   reduce the potential risk from a default of a swap provider. Examples of
                   such features could be: cash collateralisation of the market value in
                   combination with an agreement of prompt additional payments in
                   case of an increase of the market value of the swap; and minimum
                   credit quality of the swap provider with the obligation to post collateral
                   or present an alternative swap provider without any costs for the SPE
                   in the event of a credit deterioration on the part of the original swap
                   provider. If national supervisors are satisfied with these risk mitigants
                   and accept that the contribution of these exposures to the risk of the
                   holder of a securitisation exposure is insignificant, supervisors may
                   allow the bank to exclude these exposures from the KIRB calculation.




44.5   In the case of funded synthetic securitisations, any proceeds of the issuances of
       credit-linked notes or other funded obligations of the SPE that serve as collateral
       for the repayment of the securitisation exposure in question and for which the

       bank cannot demonstrate to its national supervisor that it is immaterial must be
       included in the calculation of KIRB if the default risk of the collateral is subject to
       the tranched loss allocation.


  As in the case of swaps other than credit derivatives, the numerator of K
                   IRB
                       (ie quantity CRE44.2(1)) must include the exposure amount of the
                   collateral times its risk weight times 8%, but the denominator should
                   be calculated without recognition of the collateral.


44.6   To calculate KIRB, the treatment for eligible purchased receivables described in
       CRE30.29 to CRE30.33, CRE34.2 to CRE34.7, CRE36.103, CRE36.105, CRE36.109 to
       CRE36.117 may be used, with the particularities specified in CRE44.7 to CRE44.9,
       if, according to IRB minimum requirements:

       (1) for non-retail assets, it would be an undue burden on a bank to assess the
           default risk of individual obligors; and

       (2) for retail assets, a bank is unable to primarily rely on internal data.

44.7   CRE44.6 applies to any securitised exposure, not just purchased receivables. For
       this purpose, "eligible purchased receivables" should be understood as referring
       to any securitised exposure for which the conditions of CRE44.6 are met, and
       "eligible purchased corporate receivables" should be understood as referring to
       any securitised non-retail exposure. All other IRB minimum requirements must be
       met by the bank.

44.8   Supervisors may deny the use of a top-down approach for eligible purchased
       receivables for securitised exposures depending on the bank's compliance with
       minimum requirements.

44.9   The requirements to use a top-down approach for the eligible purchased
       receivables are generally unchanged when applied to securitisations except in the
       following cases:


       (1) the requirement in CRE30.32 for the bank to have a claim on all proceeds
           from the pool of receivables or a pro-rata interest in the proceeds does not
           apply. Instead, the bank must have a claim on all proceeds from the pool of
           securitised exposures that have been allocated to the bank's exposure in the

            securitisation in accordance with the terms of the related securitisation
            documentation;

       (2) in CRE36.110, the purchasing bank should be interpreted as the bank
           calculating KIRB;

       (3) in CRE36.112 to CRE36.117 "a bank" should be read as "the bank estimating
           probability of default, loss-given-default (LGD) or expected loss for the
           securitised exposures"; and

       (4) if the bank calculating KIRB cannot itself meet the requirements in CRE36.112
            to CRE36.116, it must instead ensure that it meets these requirements
            through a party to the securitisation acting for and in the interest of the
            investors in the securitisation, in accordance with the terms of the related
            securitisation documents. Specifically, requirements for effective control and
            ownership must be met for all proceeds from the pool of securitised
            exposures that have been allocated to the bank's exposure to the
            securitisation. Further, in CRE36.114(1), the relevant eligibility criteria and
            advancing policies are those of the securitisation, not those of the bank
            calculating KIRB.

44.10 In cases where a bank has set aside a specific provision or has a non-refundable
      purchase price discount on an exposure in the pool, the quantities defined in
      CRE44.2(1) and CRE44.2(2) must be calculated using the gross amount of the
      exposure without the specific provision and/or non-refundable purchase price
      discount.

44.11 Dilution risk in a securitisation must be recognised if it is not immaterial, as
      demonstrated by the bank to its national supervisor (see CRE34.8), whereby the
      provisions of CRE44.2 to CRE44.5 shall apply.

44.12 Where default and dilution risk are treated in an aggregate manner (eg an
      identical reserve or overcollateralisation is available to cover losses for both risks),
      in order to calculate capital requirements for the securitisation exposure, a bank
      must determine KIRB for dilution risk and default risk, respectively, and combine
       them into a single KIRB prior to applying the SEC-IRBA. CRE99.4 to CRE99.8
       provides an illustration of such a calculation.




44.13 In certain circumstances, pool level credit enhancement will not be available to
      cover losses from either credit risk or dilution risk. In the case of separate
      waterfalls for credit risk and dilution risk, a bank should consult with its national
      supervisor as to how the capital calculation should be performed. To guide banks
      and supervisors, CRE99.9 to CRE99.19 includes an example of how such
      calculations could be made in a prudent manner.


Definition of attachment point (A), detachment point (D) and
supervisory parameter (p)
44.14 The input A represents the threshold at which losses within the underlying pool
      would first be allocated to the securitisation exposure. This input, which is a
      decimal value between zero and one, equals the greater of

       (1) zero and

       (2) the ratio of

            (a) the outstanding balance of all underlying assets in the securitisation
                minus the outstanding balance of all tranches that rank senior or pari
                passu to the tranche that contains the securitisation exposure of the
                bank (including the exposure itself) to

            (b) the outstanding balance of all underlying assets in the securitisation.

44.15 The input D represents the threshold at which losses within the underlying pool
      result in a total loss of principal for the tranche in which a securitisation exposure
      resides. This input, which is a decimal value between zero and one, equals the
      greater of

       (1) zero and

       (2) the ratio of

            (a) the outstanding balance of all underlying assets in the securitisation
                minus the outstanding balance of all tranches that rank senior to the
                tranche that contains the securitisation exposure of the bank to

            (b) the outstanding balance of all underlying assets in the securitisation.




44.16 For the calculation of A and D, overcollateralisation and funded reserve accounts
      must be recognised as tranches; and the assets forming these reserve accounts
      must be recognised as underlying assets. Only the loss-absorbing part of the
      funded reserve accounts that provide credit enhancement can be recognised as
      tranches and underlying assets. Unfunded reserve accounts, such as those to be
      funded from future receipts from the underlying exposures (eg unrealised excess
       spread) and assets that do not provide credit enhancement like pure liquidity
       support, currency or interest-rate swaps, or cash collateral accounts related to
       these instruments must not be included in the above calculation of A and D.
       Banks should take into consideration the economic substance of the transaction
       and apply these definitions conservatively in the light of the structure.

44.17 The supervisory parameter p in the context of the SEC-IRBA is expressed as
      follows, where:

       (1) 0.3 denotes the p-parameter floor;

       (2) N is the effective number of loans in the underlying pool, calculated as
           described in CRE44.20;

       (3) KIRB is the capital charge of the underlying pool (as defined in CRE44.2 to
           CRE44.5);

       (4) LGD is the exposure-weighted average loss-given-default of the underlying
           pool, calculated as described in CRE44.21);

       (5) MT is the maturity of the tranche calculated according to CRE40.22 and
           CRE40.23; and




       (6) the parameters A, B, C, D, and E are determined according to Table 1:




            Look-up table for supervisory parameters A, B, C, D and E                  Table 1


                                                     A         B         C       D        E

            Wholesale   Senior, granular (N≥25)      0        3.56      -1.85   0.55    0.07

                        Senior, non-granular        0.11      2.61      -2.91   0.68    0.07
                        (N<25)

                        Non-senior, granular        0.16      2.87      -1.03   0.21    0.07
                        (N≥25)

                        Non-senior, non-granular            0.22      2.35      -2.46   0.48    0.07
                        (N<25)

            Retail      Senior                       0         0        -7.48   0.71    0.24

                        Non-senior                   0         0        -5.78   0.55    0.27




44.18 If the underlying IRB pool consists of both retail and wholesale exposures, the
      pool should be divided into one retail and one wholesale subpool and, for each
      subpool, a separate p-parameter (and the corresponding input parameters N, KIRB
       and LGD) should be estimated. Subsequently, a weighted average p-parameter
       for the transaction should be calculated on the basis of the p-parameters of each
       subpool and the nominal size of the exposures in each subpool.

44.19 If a bank applies the SEC-IRBA to a mixed pool as described in CRE40.46 and
      CRE40.47, the calculation of the p-parameter should be based on the IRB
      underlying assets only. The SA underlying assets should not be considered for
      this purpose.

44.20 The effective number of exposures, N, is calculated as follows, where EADi
       represents the exposure-at-default associated with the ith instrument in the pool.
       Multiple exposures to the same obligor must be consolidated (ie treated as a
       single instrument).




44.21 The exposure-weighted average LGD is calculated as follows, where LGDi
      represents the average LGD associated with all exposures to the ith obligor. When
      default and dilution risks for purchased receivables are treated in an aggregate
      manner (eg a single reserve or overcollateralisation is available to cover losses
      from either source) within a securitisation, the LGD input must be constructed as
      a weighted average of the LGD for default risk and the 100% LGD for dilution risk.
      The weights are the stand-alone IRB capital charges for default risk and dilution
      risk, respectively.




44.22 Under the conditions outlined below, banks may employ a simplified method for
      calculating the effective number of exposures and the exposure-weighted
      average LGD. Let Cm in the simplified calculation denote the share of the pool
      corresponding to the sum of the largest m exposures (eg a 15% share
      corresponds to a value of 0.15). The level of m is set by each bank.

      (1) If the portfolio share associated with the largest exposure, C1, is no more
            than 0.03 (or 3% of the underlying pool), then for purposes of the SEC-IRBA
            the bank may set LGD as 0.50 and N equal to the following amount:




      (2) Alternatively, if only C1 is available and this amount is no more than 0.03,
            then the bank may set LGD as 0.50 and N as 1/C1.


Calculation of risk weight
44.23 The formulation of the SEC-IRBA is expressed as follows, where:

      (1)            is the capital requirement per unit of securitisation exposure under
            the SEC-IRBA, which is a function of three variables;

      (2) the constant e is the base of the natural logarithm (which equals 2.71828);


       (3) the variable a is defined as -(1 / (p * KIRB));

       (4) the variable u is defined as D - KIRB; and

       (5) the variable l is defined as the maximum of A - KIRB and zero.




44.24 The risk weight assigned to a securitisation exposure when applying the SEC-IRBA
      is calculated as follows:

       (1) When D for a securitisation exposure is less than or equal to KIRB, the
            exposure must be assigned a risk weight of 1250%.

       (2) When A for a securitisation exposure is greater than or equal to KIRB, the risk

            weight of the exposure, expressed as a percentage, would equal
            times 12.5.

       (3) When A is less than KIRB and D is greater than KIRB, the applicable risk weight

            is a weighted average of 1250% and 12.5 times            according to the
            following formula:




44.25 The risk weight for market risk hedges such as currency or interest rate swaps will
      be inferred from a securitisation exposure that is pari passu to the swaps or, if
      such an exposure does not exist, from the next subordinated tranche.

44.26 The resulting risk weight is subject to a floor risk weight of 15%.


Alternative capital treatment for term securitisations and short-term
securitisations meeting the STC criteria for capital purposes
44.27 Securitisation transactions that are assessed as simple, transparent and
      comparable (STC)-compliant for capital purposes in CRE40.67 can be subject to
      capital requirements under the securitisation framework, taking into account that,
      when the SEC-IRBA is used, CRE44.28 and CRE44.29 are applicable instead of
      CRE44.17 and CRE44.26 respectively.



44.28

        The supervisory parameter p in SEC-IRBA for an exposure to an STC securitisation
        is expressed as follows, where:

        (1) 0.3 denotes the p-parameter floor;

        (2) N is the effective number of loans in the underlying pool, calculated as
            described in CRE44.20;

        (3) KIRB is the capital charge of the underlying pool (as defined in CRE44.2 to
            CRE44.5);

        (4) LGD is the exposure-weighted average loss-given-default of the underlying
            pool, calculated as described in CRE44.21;

        (5) MT is the maturity of the tranche calculated according to CRE40.22 and
            CRE40.23; and

        (6) the parameters A, B, C, D, and E are determined according to Table 2:




             Look-up table for supervisory parameters A, B, C, D and E                  Table 2


                                                      A         B         C       D        E

             Wholesale   Senior, granular (N≥25)      0        3.56      -1.85   0.55    0.07

                         Senior, non-granular        0.11      2.61      -2.91   0.68    0.07
                         (N<25)

                         Non-senior, granular        0.16      2.87      -1.03   0.21    0.07
                         (N≥25)

                         Non-senior, non-granular           0.22      2.35      -2.46   0.48    0.07
                         (N<25)

             Retail      Senior                       0         0        -7.48   0.71    0.24

                         Non-senior                   0         0        -5.78   0.55    0.27



44.29 The resulting risk weight is subject to a floor risk weight of 10% for senior
      tranches, and 15% for non-senior tranches.



                                 CRE50
                                 Counterparty credit risk
                                 definitions and terminology
                                 This chapter defines terms that are used in the
                                 chapters of the credit risk standard relating to
                                 counterparty credit risk.


                               General terms
50.1   Counterparty credit risk (CCR) is the risk that the counterparty to a transaction
       could default before the final settlement of the transaction's cash flows. An
       economic loss would occur if the transactions or portfolio of transactions with the
       counterparty has a positive economic value at the time of default. Unlike a firm's
       exposure to credit risk through a loan, where the exposure to credit risk is
       unilateral and only the lending bank faces the risk of loss, CCR creates a bilateral
       risk of loss: the market value of the transaction can be positive or negative to
       either counterparty to the transaction. The market value is uncertain and can vary
       over time with the movement of underlying market factors.

50.2   A central counterparty (CCP) is a clearing house that interposes itself between
       counterparties to contracts traded in one or more financial markets, becoming
       the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer and thereby ensuring the
       future performance of open contracts. A CCP becomes counterparty to trades
       with market participants through novation, an open offer system, or another
       legally binding arrangement. For the purposes of the capital framework, a CCP is
       a financial institution.

50.3   A qualifying central counterparty (QCCP) is an entity that is licensed to operate
       as a CCP (including a license granted by way of confirming an exemption), and is
       permitted by the appropriate regulator/overseer to operate as such with respect
       to the products offered. This is subject to the provision that the CCP is based and
       prudentially supervised in a jurisdiction where the relevant regulator/overseer has
       established, and publicly indicated that it applies to the CCP on an ongoing basis,
       domestic rules and regulations that are consistent with the Principles for Financial
       Market Infrastructures issued by the Committee on Payments and Market
       Infrastructures and the International Organization of Securities Commissions.

       (1) Where the CCP is in a jurisdiction that does not have a CCP regulator
           applying the Principles to the CCP, then the banking supervisor may make
           the determination of whether the CCP meets this definition.

       (2) In addition, for a CCP to be considered a QCCP, the requirements of CRE54.
           37 must be met to permit each clearing member bank to calculate its capital
           requirement for its default fund exposures.

50.4   A clearing member is a member of, or a direct participant in, a CCP that is
       entitled to enter into a transaction with the CCP, regardless of whether it enters
       into trades with a CCP for its own hedging, investment or speculative purposes or
       whether it also enters into trades as a financial intermediary between the CCP and
       other market participants.



       For the purposes of the CCR standard, where a CCP has a link to a second CCP,
       that second CCP is to be treated as a clearing member of the first CCP. Whether
       the second CCP's collateral contribution to the first CCP is treated as initial
       margin or a default fund contribution will depend upon the legal arrangement
       between the CCPs. National supervisors should be consulted to determine the
       treatment of this initial margin and default fund contributions.

50.5   A client is a party to a transaction with a CCP through either a clearing member
       acting as a financial intermediary, or a clearing member guaranteeing the
       performance of the client to the CCP.

50.6   A multi-level client structure is one in which banks can centrally clear as indirect
       clients; that is, when clearing services are provided to the bank by an institution
       which is not a direct clearing member, but is itself a client of a clearing member
       or another clearing client. For exposures between clients and clients of clients, we
       use the term higher level client for the institution providing clearing services;
       and the term lower level client for the institution clearing through that client.

50.7   Initial margin means a clearing member's or client's funded collateral posted to
       the CCP to mitigate the potential future exposure (PFE) of the CCP to the clearing
       member arising from the possible future change in the value of their transactions.
       For the purposes of the calculation of counterparty credit risk capital
       requirements, initial margin does not include contributions to a CCP for
       mutualised loss sharing arrangements (ie in case a CCP uses initial margin to
       mutualise losses among the clearing members, it will be treated as a default fund
       exposure). Initial margin includes collateral deposited by a clearing member or
       client in excess of the minimum amount required, provided the CCP or clearing
       member may, in appropriate cases, prevent the clearing member or client from
       withdrawing such excess collateral.

50.8   Variation margin means a clearing member's or client's funded collateral posted
       on a daily or intraday basis to a CCP based upon price movements of their
       transactions.

50.9   Trade exposures (in CRE54) include the current and potential future exposure of
       a clearing member or a client to a CCP arising from over-the-counter derivatives,
       exchange traded derivatives transactions or securities financing transactions, as
       well as initial margin. For the purposes of this definition, the current exposure of a
       clearing member includes the variation margin due to the clearing member but
       not yet received.



50.10 Default funds also known as clearing deposits or guaranty fund contributions (or
      any other names), are clearing members' funded or unfunded contributions
      towards, or underwriting of, a CCP's mutualised loss sharing arrangements. The

       description given by a CCP to its mutualised loss sharing arrangements is not
       determinative of their status as a default fund; rather, the substance of such
       arrangements will govern their status.

50.11 Offsetting transaction means the transaction leg between the clearing member
      and the CCP when the clearing member acts on behalf of a client (eg when a
      clearing member clears or novates a client's trade).


Transaction types
50.12 Long settlement transactions are transactions where a counterparty undertakes
      to deliver a security, a commodity, or a foreign exchange amount against cash,
      other financial instruments, or commodities, or vice versa, at a settlement or
      delivery date that is contractually specified as more than the lower of the market
      standard for this particular instrument and five business days after the date on
      which the bank enters into the transaction.

50.13 Securities financing transactions (SFTs) are transactions such as repurchase
      agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, security lending and borrowing, and
      margin lending transactions, where the value of the transactions depends on
      market valuations and the transactions are often subject to margin agreements.

50.14 Margin lending transactions are transactions in which a bank extends credit in
      connection with the purchase, sale, carrying or trading of securities. Margin
      lending transactions do not include other loans that happen to be secured by
      securities collateral. Generally, in margin lending transactions, the loan amount is
      collateralised by securities whose value is greater than the amount of the loan.


Netting sets, hedging sets, and related terms
50.15 Netting set is a group of transactions with a single counterparty that are subject
      to a legally enforceable bilateral netting arrangement and for which netting is
      recognised for regulatory capital purposes under the provisions of CRE52.7 and
      CRE52.8 that are applicable to the group of transactions, this framework text on
      credit risk mitigation techniques in CRE22, or the cross product netting rules set
      out in CRE53.61 to CRE53.71. Each transaction that is not subject to a legally
      enforceable bilateral netting arrangement that is recognised for regulatory capital
      purposes should be interpreted as its own netting set for the purpose of these
      rules.

50.16 Hedging set is a set of transactions within a single netting set within which full or
      partial offsetting is recognised for the purpose of calculating the PFE add-on of
      the Standardised Approach for counterparty credit risk.

50.17 Margin agreement is a contractual agreement or provisions to an agreement
      under which one counterparty must supply variation margin to a second
      counterparty when an exposure of that second counterparty to the first
      counterparty exceeds a specified level.

50.18 Margin threshold is the largest amount of an exposure that remains outstanding
      until one party has the right to call for variation margin.

50.19 Margin period of risk is the time period from the last exchange of collateral
      covering a netting set of transactions with a defaulting counterparty until that
      counterparty is closed out and the resulting market risk is re-hedged.

50.20 Effective maturity under the Internal Models Method for a netting set with
      maturity greater than one year is the ratio of the sum of expected exposure over
      the life of the transactions in a netting set discounted at the risk-free rate of
      return divided by the sum of expected exposure over one year in a netting set
      discounted at the risk-free rate. This effective maturity may be adjusted to reflect
      rollover risk by replacing expected exposure with effective expected exposure for
      forecasting horizons under one year. The formula is given in CRE53.20.

50.21 Cross-product netting refers to the inclusion of transactions of different product
      categories within the same netting set pursuant to the cross-product netting
      rules set out in CRE53.


Distributions
50.22 Distribution of market values is the forecast of the probability distribution of
      net market values of transactions within a netting set for some future date (the
      forecasting horizon) given the realised market value of those transactions up to
      the present time.

50.23 Distribution of exposures is the forecast of the probability distribution of
      market values that is generated by setting forecast instances of negative net
      market values equal to zero (this takes account of the fact that, when the bank
      owes the counterparty money, the bank does not have an exposure to the
      counterparty).

50.24 Risk-neutral distribution is a distribution of market values or exposures at a
      future time period where the distribution is calculated using market implied
      values such as implied volatilities.




50.25 Actual distribution is a distribution of market values or exposures at a future
      time period where the distribution is calculated using historic or realised values
      such as volatilities calculated using past price or rate changes.


Exposure measures and adjustments
50.26 Current exposure is the larger of zero, or the current market value of a
      transaction or portfolio of transactions within a netting set with a counterparty
      that would be lost upon the immediate default of the counterparty, assuming no
      recovery on the value of those transactions in bankruptcy. Current exposure is
      often also called Replacement Cost.

50.27 Peak exposure is a high percentile (typically 95% or 99%) of the distribution of
      exposures at any particular future date before the maturity date of the longest
      transaction in the netting set. A peak exposure value is typically generated for
      many future dates up until the longest maturity date of transactions in the
      netting set.

50.28 Expected exposure is the mean (average) of the distribution of exposures at any
      particular future date before the longest-maturity transaction in the netting set
      matures. An expected exposure value is typically generated for many future dates
      up until the longest maturity date of transactions in the netting set.

50.29 Effective expected exposure at a specific date is the maximum expected
      exposure that occurs at that date or any prior date. Alternatively, it may be
      defined for a specific date as the greater of the expected exposure at that date, or
      the effective exposure at the previous date. In effect, the Effective Expected
      Exposure is the Expected Exposure that is constrained to be non-decreasing over
      time.

50.30 Expected positive exposure (EPE) is the weighted average over time of
      expected exposure where the weights are the proportion that an individual
      expected exposure represents of the entire time interval. When calculating the
      minimum capital requirement, the average is taken over the first year or, if all the
      contracts in the netting set mature before one year, over the time period of the
      longest-maturity contract in the netting set.

50.31 Effective expected positive exposure (Effective EPE) is the weighted average
      over time of effective expected exposure over the first year, or, if all the contracts
      in the netting set mature before one year, over the time period of the longest-
      maturity contract in the netting set where the weights are the proportion that an
      individual expected exposure represents of the entire time interval.


50.32 Credit valuation adjustment is an adjustment to the mid-market valuation of
      the portfolio of trades with a counterparty. This adjustment reflects the market
       value of the credit risk due to any failure to perform on contractual agreements
       with a counterparty. This adjustment may reflect the market value of the credit
       risk of the counterparty or the market value of the credit risk of both the bank
       and the counterparty.

50.33 One-sided credit valuation adjustment is a credit valuation adjustment that
      reflects the market value of the credit risk of the counterparty to the firm, but
      does not reflect the market value of the credit risk of the bank to the
      counterparty.


CCR-related risks
50.34 Rollover risk is the amount by which expected positive exposure is understated
      when future transactions with a counterparty are expected to be conducted on an
      ongoing basis, but the additional exposure generated by those future
      transactions is not included in calculation of expected positive exposure.

50.35 General wrong-way risk arises when the probability of default of counterparties
      is positively correlated with general market risk factors.

50.36 Specific wrong-way risk arises when the exposure to a particular counterparty is
      positively correlated with the probability of default of the counterparty due to the
      nature of the transactions with the counterparty.

                                 CRE51
                                 Counterparty credit risk
                                 overview
                                 This chapter explains the meaning of
                                 counterparty credit risk and sets out the various
                                 approaches within the Basel framework that
                                 banks can use to measure counterparty credit
                                 risk exposures.

Introduction
51.1   Banks are required to identify their transactions that expose them to counterparty
       credit risk and calculate a counterparty credit risk charge. This chapter starts by
       explaining the definition of counterparty credit risk. It then sets out the various
       approaches that banks can use to measure their counterparty credit risk
       exposures and then calculate the related capital requirement.


Counterparty credit risk definition and explanation
51.2   Counterparty credit risk is defined in CRE50. It is the risk that the counterparty to
       a transaction could default before the final settlement of the transaction in cases
       where there is a bilateral risk of loss. The bilateral risk of loss is the key concept
       on which the definition of counterparty credit risk is based and is explained
       further below.

51.3   When a bank makes a loan to a borrower the credit risk exposure is unilateral.
       That is, the bank is exposed to the risk of loss arising from the default of the
       borrower, but the transaction does not expose the borrower to a risk of loss from
       the default of the bank. By contrast, some transactions give rise to a bilateral risk
       of loss and therefore give rise to a counterparty credit risk charge. For example:

       (1) A bank makes a loan to a borrower and receives collateral from the borrower.
           


           (a) The bank is exposed to the risk that the borrower defaults and the sale
               of the collateral is insufficient to cover the loss on the loan.

           (b) The borrower is exposed to the risk that the bank defaults and does not
               return the collateral. Even in cases where the customer has the legal
               right to offset the amount it owes on the loan in compensation for the
               lost collateral, the customer is still exposed to the risk of loss at the
               outset of the loan because the value of the loan may be less than the
               value of the collateral the time of default of the bank.


     (2) A bank borrows cash from a counterparty and posts collateral to the
         counterparty (or undertakes a transaction that is economically equivalent,
         such as the sale and repurchase (repo) of a security).

         (a) The bank is exposed to the risk that its counterparty defaults and does
             not return the collateral that the bank posted.

         (b) The counterparty is exposed to the risk that the bank defaults and the
             amount the counterparty raises from the sale of the collateral that the

              bank posted is insufficient to cover the loss on the counterparty’s loan
              to the bank.

     (3) A bank borrows a security from a counterparty and posts cash to the
         counterparty as collateral (or undertakes a transaction that is economically
         equivalent, such as a reverse repo).

         (a) The bank is exposed to the risk that its counterparty defaults and does
             not return the cash that the bank posted as collateral.

         (b) The counterparty is exposed to the risk that the bank defaults and the
             cash that the bank posted as collateral is insufficient to cover the loss of
             the security that the bank borrowed.

     (4) A bank enters a derivatives transaction with a counterparty (eg it enters a
         swap transaction or purchases an option). The value of the transaction can
         vary over time with the movement of underlying market factors.

         (a) The bank is exposed to the risk that the counterparty defaults when the
             derivative has a positive value for the bank.

         (b) The counterparty is exposed to the risk that the bank defaults when the
             derivative has a positive value for the counterparty.




 The bilateral risk of loss in this example arises because the bank
                   receives, ie takes possession of, the collateral as part of the transaction.
                   By contrast, collateralized loans where the collateral is not exchanged
                   prior to default, do not give rise to a bilateral risk of loss; for example a
                   corporate or retail loan secured on a property of the borrower where
                   the bank may only take possession of the property when the borrower
                   defaults does not give rise to counterparty credit risk.

 The counterparty credit risk rules capture the risk of loss to the bank
                   from the default of the derivative counterparty. The risk of gains or
                   losses on the changing market value of the derivative is captured by
                   the market risk framework. The market risk framework captures the
                   risk that the bank will suffer a loss as a result of market movements in
                   underlying risk factors referenced by the derivative (eg interest rates for
                   an interest rate swap); however, it also captures the risk of losses that
                   can result from the derivative declining in value due to a deterioration
                   in the creditworthiness of the derivative counterparty. The latter risk is
                   the credit valuation adjustment risk set out in MAR50.



Scope of counterparty credit risk charge
51.4   Banks must calculate a counterparty credit risk charge for all exposures that give
       rise to counterparty credit risk, with the exception of those transactions listed in
       CRE51.16 below. The categories of transaction that give rise to counterparty
       credit risk are:

       (1) Over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives

       (2) Exchange-traded derivatives

       (3) Long settlement transactions

       (4) Securities financing transactions

51.5   The transactions listed in CRE51.4 above generally exhibit the following abstract
       characteristics:

       (1) The transactions generate a current exposure or market value.

       (2) The transactions have an associated random future market value based on
           market variables.



       (3) The transactions generate an exchange of payments or an exchange of a
           financial instrument (including commodities) against payment.

       (4) The transactions are undertaken with an identified counterparty against
           which a unique probability of default can be determined.

51.6   Other common characteristics of the transactions listed in CRE51.4 include the
       following:

       (1) Collateral may be used to mitigate risk exposure and is inherent in the nature
           of some transactions.

       (2) Short-term financing may be a primary objective in that the transactions
           mostly consist of an exchange of one asset for another (cash or securities)
           for a relatively short period of time, usually for the business purpose of
           financing. The two sides of the transactions are not the result of separate
           decisions but form an indivisible whole to accomplish a defined objective.

       (3) Netting may be used to mitigate the risk.

       (4) Positions are frequently valued (most commonly on a daily basis), according
           to market variables.

       (5) Remargining may be employed.


Methods to calculate counterparty credit risk exposure
51.7   For the transaction types listed in CRE51.4 above, banks must calculate their
       counterparty credit risk exposure, or exposure at default (EAD), using one of the
       methods set out in CRE51.8 to CRE51.9 below. The methods vary according to the
       type of the transaction, the counterparty to the transaction, and whether the
       bank has received supervisory approval to use the method (if such approval is
       required).


 The terms “exposure” and “EAD” are used interchangeable in the
                   counterparty credit risk chapters of the credit risk standard. This reflects
                   the fact that the amounts calculated under the counterparty credit risk
                   rules must typically be used as either the “exposure” within the
                   standardised approach to credit risk, or the EAD within the internal
                   ratings-based (IRB) approach to credit risk, as described in CRE51.13.



51.8   For exposures that are not cleared through a central counterparty (CCP) the
       following methods must be used to calculate the counterparty credit risk
       exposure:

       (1) Standardised approach for measuring counterparty credit risk exposures (SA-
           CCR), which is set out in CRE52. This method is to be used for exposures
           arising from OTC derivatives, exchange-traded derivatives and long
           settlement transactions. This method must be used if the bank does not have
           approval to use the internal model method (IMM).

       (2) The simple approach or comprehensive approach to the recognition of
           collateral, which are both set out in the credit risk mitigation chapter of the
           standardised approach to credit risk (see CRE22). These methods are to be
           used for securities financing transactions (SFTs) and must be used if the bank
           does not have approval to use the value-at-risk (VaR) models or the IMM.

       (3) The VaR models approach, which is set out in CRE22.74 to CRE22.77. The
           VaR models approach may be used to calculate EAD for SFTs, subject to
           supervisory approval, as an alternative to the method set out in (2) above.

       (4) The IMM, which is set out in CRE53. This method may be used, subject to
           supervisory approval, as an alternative to the methods to calculate
           counterparty credit risk exposures set out in (1) and (2) above (for all of the
           exposures referenced in those bullets).

51.9   For exposures that are cleared through a CCP, banks must apply the method set
       out CRE54. This method covers:

       (1) the exposures of a bank to a CCPs when the bank is a clearing member of
           the CCP;

       (2) the exposures of a bank to its clients, when the bank is a clearing members
           and act as an intermediary between the client and the CCP; and

       (3) the exposures of a bank to a clearing member of a CCP, when the bank is a
           client of the clearing member and the clearing member is acting as an
           intermediary between the bank and the CCP.

51.10 Exposures to central counterparties arising from the settlement of cash
      transactions (equities, fixed income, spot foreign exchange and spot
      commodities), are excluded from the requirements of CRE54. They are instead
      subject to the requirements of CRE70.



51.11




        Under the methods outlined above, the exposure amount or EAD for a given
        counterparty is equal to the sum of the exposure amounts or EADs calculated for
        each netting set with that counterparty, subject to the exception outlined in
        CRE51.12 below.

51.12 The exposure or EAD for a given OTC derivative counterparty is defined as the
      greater of zero and the difference between the sum of EADs across all netting
      sets with the counterparty and the credit valuation adjustment (CVA) for that
      counterparty which has already been recognised by the bank as an incurred write-
      down (ie a CVA loss). This CVA loss is calculated without taking into account any
      offsetting debit valuation adjustments which have been deducted from capital
      under CAP30.15. This reduction of EAD by incurred CVA losses does not apply to
      the determination of the CVA risk capital requirement.


Methods to calculate CCR risk-weighted assets
51.13 After banks have calculated their counterparty credit risk exposures, or EAD,
      according to the methods outlined above, they must apply the standardised
      approach to credit risk, the IRB approach to credit risk, or, in the case of the
      exposures to CCPs, the capital requirements set out in CRE54. For counterparties
      to which the bank applies the standardised approach, the counterparty credit risk
      exposure amount will be risk weighted according to the relevant risk weight of
      the counterparty. For counterparties to which the bank applies the IRB approach,
      the counterparty credit risk exposure amount defines the EAD that is used within
      the IRB approach to determine risk-weighted assets (RWA) and expected loss
      amounts.

51.14 For IRB exposures, the risk weights applied to OTC derivative exposures should
      be calculated with the full maturity adjustment (as defined in CRE31.6) set equal
      to 1, provided the bank can demonstrate to its national supervisor that its specific
      VaR model applied in MAR50.3 contains effects of rating migrations. If the bank
      cannot demonstrate this to the satisfaction of its national supervisor, the full
      maturity adjustment function will apply.

51.15 For banks that have supervisory approval to use IMM, RWA for credit risk must be
      calculated as the higher of:

        (1) the sum of RWA calculated using IMM with current parameter calibrations;
            and

       (2) the sum of RWA calculated using IMM with stressed parameter calibrations.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       How often is Effective expected positive exposure (EPE) using current
                  market data to be compared with Effective EPE using a stress
                  calibration?

                  The frequency of calculation should be discussed with your national
                  supervisor.

       FAQ2       How this requirement is to be applied to the use test in the context of
                  credit risk management and CVA (eg can a multiplier to the Effective
                  EPE be used between comparisons)?

                  The use test only applies to the Effective EPE calculated using current
                  market data.



Exemptions
51.16 As an exception to the requirements of CRE51.4 above, banks are not required to
      calculate a counterparty credit risk charge for the following types of transactions
      (ie the exposure amount or EAD for counterparty credit risk for the transaction
      will be zero):

       (1) Credit derivative protection purchased by the bank against a banking book
           exposure, or against a counterparty credit risk exposure. In such cases, the
           bank will determine its capital requirement for the hedged exposure
           according to the criteria and general rules for the recognition of credit
           derivatives within the standardised approach or IRB approach to credit risk
           (ie substitution approach).

       (2) Sold credit default swaps in the banking book where they are treated in the
           framework as a guarantee provided by the bank and subject to a credit risk
           charge for the full notional amount.



                                 CRE52
                                 Standardised approach to
                                 counterparty credit risk
                                 This chapter sets out the standardised approach
                                 for counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR).


Overview and scope
52.1   The Standardised Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR) applies to over-
       the-counter (OTC) derivatives, exchange-traded derivatives and long settlement
       transactions. Banks that do not have approval to apply the internal model
       method (IMM) for the relevant transactions must use SA-CCR, as set out in this
       chapter. EAD is to be calculated separately for each netting set (as set out in
       CRE50.15, each transaction that is not subject to a legally enforceable bilateral
       netting arrangement that is recognised for regulatory capital purposes should be
       interpreted as its own netting set). It is determined using the following formula,
       where:

       (1) alpha is 1.4

       (2) RC is the replacement cost calculated according to CRE52.3 to CRE52.19

       (3) PFE is the amount for potential future exposure calculated according to
           CRE52.20 to CRE52.76




       FAQ
       FAQ1       How should the EAD be determined for sold options where premiums
                  have been paid up front?

                  The EAD can be set to zero only for sold options that are outside
                  netting and margin agreements.

       FAQ2       How should the EAD be determined for credit derivatives where the
                  bank is the protection seller?

                  For credit derivatives where the bank is the protection seller and that
                  are outside netting and margin agreements, the EAD may be capped to
                  the amount of unpaid premia. Banks have the option to remove such
                  credit derivatives from their legal netting sets and treat them as
                  individual unmargined transactions in order to apply the cap.

       FAQ3       Are banks permitted to decompose certain types of products for which
                  no specific treatment is specified in the SA-CCR standard into several
                  simpler contracts resulting in the same cash flows?

                  In the case of options (eg interest rate caps/floors that may be
                  represented as the portfolio of individual caplets/floorlets), banks may
                  decompose those products in a manner consistent with CRE52.43.



                  Banks may not decompose linear products (eg ordinary interest rate
                  swaps).


52.2   The replacement cost (RC) and the potential future exposure (PFE) components
       are calculated differently for margined and unmargined netting sets. Margined
       netting sets are netting sets covered by a margin agreement under which the
       bank’s counterparty has to post variation margin; all other netting sets, including
       those covered by a one-way margin agreement where only the bank posts
       variation margin, are treated as unmargined for the purposes of the SA-CCR. The
       EAD for a margined netting set is capped at the EAD of the same netting set
       calculated on an unmargined basis.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       The capping of the exposure at default (EAD) at the otherwise
                  unmargined EAD is motivated by the need to ignore exposure from a
                  large threshold amount that would not realistically be hit by some
                  small (or non-existent) transactions. There is, however, a potential
                  anomaly relating to this capping, namely in the case of margined
                  netting sets comprising short-term transactions with a residual
                  maturity of 10 business days or less. In this situation, the maturity
                  factor (MF) weighting will be greater for a margined set than for a non-
                  margined set, because of the 3/2 multiplier in CRE52.52. That
                  multiplier will, however, be negated by the capping. The anomaly
                  would be magnified if there were some disputes under the margin
                  agreement, ie where the margin period or risk (MPOR) would be
                  doubled to 20 days but, again, negated by the capping to an
                  unmargined calculation. Does this anomaly exist?

                  Yes, such an anomaly does exist. Nonetheless, this anomaly is
                  generally expected to have no significant impact on banks’ capital
                  requirements. Thus, no modification to the standard is required.



Replacement Cost and Net Independent Collateral Amount
52.3   For unmargined transactions, the RC intends to capture the loss that would occur
       if a counterparty were to default and were closed out of its transactions
       immediately. The PFE add-on represents a potential conservative increase in
       exposure over a one-year time horizon from the present date (ie the calculation
       date).



52.4

       For margined trades, the RC intends to capture the loss that would occur if a
       counterparty were to default at the present or at a future time, assuming that the
       closeout and replacement of transactions occur instantaneously. However, there
       may be a period (the margin period of risk) between the last exchange of
       collateral before default and replacement of the trades in the market. The PFE
       add-on represents the potential change in value of the trades during this time
       period.

52.5   In both cases, the haircut applicable to noncash collateral in the replacement cost
       formulation represents the potential change in value of the collateral during the
       appropriate time period (one year for unmargined trades and the margin period
       of risk for margined trades).

52.6   Replacement cost is calculated at the netting set level, whereas PFE add-ons are
       calculated for each asset class within a given netting set and then aggregated
       (see CRE52.24 to CRE52.76 below).

52.7   For capital adequacy purposes, banks may net transactions (eg when determining
       the RC component of a netting set) subject to novation under which any
       obligation between a bank and its counterparty to deliver a given currency on a
       given value date is automatically amalgamated with all other obligations for the
       same currency and value date, legally substituting one single amount for the
       previous gross obligations. Banks may also net transactions subject to any legally
       valid form of bilateral netting not covered in the preceding sentence, including
       other forms of novation. In every such case where netting is applied, a bank must
       satisfy its national supervisor that it has:

       (1) A netting contract with the counterparty or other agreement which creates a
           single legal obligation, covering all included transactions, such that the bank
           would have either a claim to receive or obligation to pay only the net sum of
           the positive and negative mark-to-market values of included individual
           transactions in the event a counterparty fails to perform due to any of the
           following: default, bankruptcy, liquidation or similar circumstances.


       (2) Written and reasoned legal reviews that, in the event of a legal challenge, the
           relevant courts and administrative authorities would find the bank’s exposure
           to be such a net amount under:

           (a) The law of the jurisdiction in which the counterparty is chartered and, if
               the foreign branch of a counterparty is involved, then also under the law
               of the jurisdiction in which the branch is located;

           (b) The law that governs the individual transactions; and


           (c)   The law that governs any contract or agreement necessary to effect the
                 netting.

       (3) Procedures in place to ensure that the legal characteristics of netting
           arrangements are kept under review in light of the possible changes in
           relevant law.

 The netting contract must not contain any clause which, in the event of
                   default of a counterparty, permits a non-defaulting counterparty to
                   make limited payments only, or no payments at all, to the estate of the
                   defaulting party, even if the defaulting party is a net creditor.


52.8   The national supervisor, after consultation when necessary with other relevant
       supervisors, must be satisfied that the netting is enforceable under the laws of
       each of the relevant jurisdictions. Thus, if any of these supervisors is dissatisfied
       about enforceability under its laws, the netting contract or agreement will not
       meet this condition and neither counterparty could obtain supervisory benefit.

52.9   There are two formulations of replacement cost depending on whether the trades
       with a counterparty are margined or unmargined. The margined formulation
       could apply both to bilateral transactions and to central clearing relationships.
       The formulation also addresses the various arrangements that a bank may have
       to post and/or receive collateral that may be referred to as initial margin.



Formulation for unmargined transactions
52.10 For unmargined transactions, RC is defined as the greater of: (i) the current
      market value of the derivative contracts less net haircut collateral held by the
      bank (if any), and (ii) zero. This is consistent with the use of replacement cost as
      the measure of current exposure, meaning that when the bank owes the
      counterparty money it has no exposure to the counterparty if it can instantly
      replace its trades and sell collateral at current market prices. The formula for RC is
      as follows, where:

       (1) V is the value of the derivative transactions in the netting set

       (2) C is the haircut value of net collateral held, which is calculated in accordance
           with the net independent collateral amount (NICA) methodology defined in
           CRE52.17



 As set out in CRE52.2, netting sets that include a one-way margin
                   agreement in favour of the bank’s counterparty (ie the bank posts, but
                   does not receive variation margin) are treated as unmargined for the
                   purposes of SA-CCR. For such netting sets, C also includes, with a
                   negative sign, the variation margin amount posted by the bank to the
                   counterparty.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        How must banks calculate the haircut applicable in the replacement
                   cost calculation for unmargined trades?

                   The haircut applicable in the replacement cost calculation for
                   unmargined trades should follow the formula in CRE22.63. In applying
                   the formula, banks must use the maturity of the longest transaction in
                   the netting set as the value for NR, capped at 250 days, in order to
                   scale haircuts for unmargined trades, which is capped at 100%.




52.11 For the purpose of CRE52.10 above, the value of non-cash collateral posted by
      the bank to its counterparty is increased and the value of the non-cash collateral
      received by the bank from its counterparty is decreased using haircuts (which are
      the same as those that apply to repo-style transactions) for the time periods
      described in CRE52.5 above.

52.12 The formulation set out in CRE52.10 above, does not permit the replacement
      cost, which represents today’s exposure to the counterparty, to be less than zero.
      However, banks sometimes hold excess collateral (even in the absence of a
      margin agreement) or have out-of-the-money trades which can further protect
      the bank from the increase of the exposure. As discussed in CRE52.21 to CRE52.23
      below, the SA-CCR allows such over-collateralisation and negative mark-to-
      market value to reduce PFE, but they are not permitted to reduce replacement
      cost.


Formulation for margined transactions
52.13 The RC formula for margined transactions builds on the RC formula for
      unmargined transactions. It also employs concepts used in standard margining
      agreements, as discussed more fully below.

52.14 The RC for margined transactions in the SA-CCR is defined as the greatest
      exposure that would not trigger a call for VM, taking into account the mechanics
      of collateral exchanges in margining agreements. Such mechanics include, for
      example, “Threshold”, “Minimum Transfer Amount” and “Independent Amount” in
      the standard industry documentation, which are factored into a call for VM. A
      defined, generic formulation has been created to reflect the variety of margining
      approaches used and those being considered by supervisors internationally.




 See CRE99 for illustrative examples of the effect of standard margin
                  agreements on the SA-CCR formulation.

For example, the 1992 (Multicurrency-Cross Border) Master Agreement
                  and the 2002 Master Agreement published by the International Swaps
                  & Derivatives Association, Inc. (ISDA Master Agreement). The ISDA
                  Master Agreement includes the ISDA Credit Support Annexes: the 1994
                  Credit Support Annex (Security Interest – New York Law), or, as
                  applicable, the 1995 Credit Support Annex (Transfer – English Law) and
                  the 1995 Credit Support Deed (Security Interest – English Law).

  For example, in the ISDA Master Agreement, the term “Credit Support
                  Amount”, or the overall amount of collateral that must be delivered
                  between the parties, is defined as the greater of the Secured Party’s
                  Exposure plus the aggregate of all Independent Amounts applicable to
                  the Pledgor minus all Independent Amounts applicable to the Secured
                  Party, minus the Pledgor’s Threshold and zero.



Incorporating NICA into replacement cost
52.15 One objective of the SA-CCR is to reflect the effect of margining agreements and
      the associated exchange of collateral in the calculation of CCR exposures. The
      following paragraphs address how the exchange of collateral is incorporated into
      the SA-CCR.

52.16 To avoid confusion surrounding the use of terms initial margin and independent
      amount which are used in various contexts and sometimes interchangeably, the
      term independent collateral amount (ICA) is introduced. ICA represents: (i)
      collateral (other than VM) posted by the counterparty that the bank may seize
      upon default of the counterparty, the amount of which does not change in
      response to the value of the transactions it secures and/or (ii) the Independent
      Amount (IA) parameter as defined in standard industry documentation. ICA can
      change in response to factors such as the value of the collateral or a change in
      the number of transactions in the netting set.




52.17 Because both a bank and its counterparty may be required to post ICA, it is
      necessary to introduce a companion term, net independent collateral amount
      (NICA), to describe the amount of collateral that a bank may use to offset its
      exposure on the default of the counterparty. NICA does not include collateral that
      a bank has posted to a segregated, bankruptcy remote account, which
      presumably would be returned upon the bankruptcy of the counterparty. That is,
      NICA represents any collateral (segregated or unsegregated) posted by the

       counterparty less the unsegregated collateral posted by the bank. With respect to
       IA, NICA takes into account the differential of IA required for the bank minus IA
       required for the counterparty.

52.18 For margined trades, the replacement cost is calculated using the following
      formula, where:

       (1) V and C are defined as in the unmargined formulation, except that C now
           includes the net variation margin amount, where the amount received by the
           bank is accounted with a positive sign and the amount posted by the bank is
           accounted with a negative sign

       (2) TH is the positive threshold before the counterparty must send the bank
           collateral

       (3) MTA is the minimum transfer amount applicable to the counterparty



52.19 TH + MTA – NICA represents the largest exposure that would not trigger a VM
      call and it contains levels of collateral that need always to be maintained. For
      example, without initial margin or IA, the greatest exposure that would not
      trigger a variation margin call is the threshold plus any minimum transfer
      amount. In the adapted formulation, NICA is subtracted from TH + MTA. This
      makes the calculation more accurate by fully reflecting both the actual level of
      exposure that would not trigger a margin call and the effect of collateral held and
      /or posted by a bank. The calculation is floored at zero, recognising that the bank
      may hold NICA in excess of TH + MTA, which could otherwise result in a negative
      replacement cost.


PFE add-on for each netting set
52.20 The PFE add-on consists of: (i) an aggregate add-on component; and (ii) a
      multiplier that allows for the recognition of excess collateral or negative mark-to-
      market value for the transactions within the netting set. The formula for PFE is as
      follows, where:


       (1) AddOnaggregate is the aggregate add-on component (see CRE52.25 below)

       (2) multiplier is defined as a function of three inputs: V, C and AddOnaggregate




Multiplier (recognition of excess collateral and negative mark-to-
market )
52.21 As a general principle, over-collateralisation should reduce capital requirements
      for counterparty credit risk. In fact, many banks hold excess collateral (ie collateral
      greater than the net market value of the derivatives contracts) precisely to offset
      potential increases in exposure represented by the add-on. As discussed in CRE52.
      10 and CRE52.18, collateral may reduce the replacement cost component of the
      exposure under the SA-CCR. The PFE component also reflects the risk-reducing
      property of excess collateral.

52.22 For prudential reasons, the Basel Committee decided to apply a multiplier to the
      PFE component that decreases as excess collateral increases, without reaching
      zero (the multiplier is floored at 5% of the PFE add-on). When the collateral held
      is less than the net market value of the derivative contracts (“under-
      collateralisation”), the current replacement cost is positive and the multiplier is
      equal to one (ie the PFE component is equal to the full value of the aggregate
      add-on). Where the collateral held is greater than the net market value of the
      derivative contracts (“over-collateralisation”), the current replacement cost is zero
      and the multiplier is less than one (ie the PFE component is less than the full
      value of the aggregate add-on).

52.23 This multiplier will also be activated when the current value of the derivative
      transactions is negative. This is because out-of-the-money transactions do not
      currently represent an exposure and have less chance to go in-the-money. The
      formula for the multiplier is as follows, where:

       (1) exp(…) is the exponential function

       (2) Floor is 5%

       (3) V is the value of the derivative transactions in the netting set

       (4) C is the haircut value of net collateral held


Aggregate add-on and asset classes
52.24 To calculate the aggregate add-on, banks must calculate add-ons for each asset
      class within the netting set. The SA-CCR uses the following five asset classes:

       (1) Interest rate derivatives

       (2) Foreign exchange derivatives

       (3) Credit derivatives

       (4) Equity derivatives.

       (5) Commodity derivatives

52.25 Diversification benefits across asset classes are not recognised. Instead, the
      respective add-ons for each asset class are simply aggregated using the following
      formula (where the sum is across the asset classes):




Allocation of derivative transactions to one or more asset classes
52.26 The designation of a derivative transaction to an asset class is to be made on the
      basis of its primary risk driver. Most derivative transactions have one primary risk
      driver, defined by its reference underlying instrument (eg an interest rate curve
      for an interest rate swap, a reference entity for a credit default swap, a foreign
      exchange rate for a foreign exchange (FX) call option, etc). When this primary risk
      driver is clearly identifiable, the transaction will fall into one of the asset classes
      described above.

52.27 For more complex trades that may have more than one risk driver (eg multi-asset
      or hybrid derivatives), banks must take sensitivities and volatility of the
      underlying into account for determining the primary risk driver.

52.28 Bank supervisors may also require more complex trades to be allocated to more
      than one asset class, resulting in the same position being included in multiple
      classes. In this case, for each asset class to which the position is allocated, banks
      must determine appropriately the sign and delta adjustment of the relevant risk
      driver (the role of delta adjustments in SA-CCR is outlined further in CRE52.30
      below).




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                               487/1626
General steps for calculating the PFE add-on for each asset class
52.29 For each transaction, the primary risk factor or factors need to be determined and
      attributed to one or more of the five asset classes: interest rate, foreign exchange,
      credit, equity or commodity. The add-on for each asset class is calculated using
      asset-class-specific formulas.
The formulas for calculating the asset class add-ons represent stylised
                   Effective EPE calculations under the assumption that all trades in the
                   asset class have zero current mark-to-market value (ie they are at-the-
                   money).


52.30 Although the formulas for the asset class add-ons vary between asset classes,
      they all use the following general steps:




     (1) The effective notional (D) must be calculated for each derivative (ie each
         individual trade) in the netting set. The effective notional is a measure of the
         sensitivity of the trade to movements in underlying risk factors (ie interest
         rates, exchange rates, credit spreads, equity prices and commodity prices).
         The effective notional is calculated as the product of the following
         parameters (ie D = d * MF * δ):

         (a) The adjusted notional (d). The adjusted notional is a measure of the
             size of the trade. For derivatives in the foreign exchange asset class this
             is simply the notional value of the foreign currency leg of the derivative
             contract, converted to the domestic currency. For derivatives in the
             equity and commodity asset classes, it is simply the current price of the
             relevant share or unit of commodity multiplied by the number of shares
             /units that the derivative references. For derivatives in the interest rate
             and credit asset classes, the notional amount is adjusted by a measure
             of the duration of the instrument to account for the fact that the value
             of instruments with longer durations are more sensitive to movements
             in underlying risk factors (ie interest rates and credit spreads).

         (b) The maturity factor (MF). The maturity factor is a parameter that takes
             account of the time period over which the potential future exposure is
             calculated. The calculation of the maturity factor varies depending on
             whether the netting set is margined or unmargined.

         (c)   The supervisory delta (δ). The supervisory delta is used to ensure that
               the effective notional take into account the direction of the trade, ie
               whether the trade is long or short, by having a positive or negative sign.
               It is also takes into account whether the trade has a non-linear
               relationship with the underlying risk factor (which is the case for options
               and collateralised debt obligation tranches).

     (2) A supervisory factor (SF) is identified for each individual trade in the
         netting set. The supervisory factor is the supervisory specified change in
         value of the underlying risk factor on which the potential future exposure
         calculation is based, which has been calibrated to take into account the
         volatility of underlying risk factors.

     (3) The trades within each asset class are separated into supervisory specified
         hedging sets. The purpose of the hedging sets is to group together trades
         within the netting set where long and short positions should be permitted to
         offset each other in the calculation of potential future exposure.


      (4) Aggregation formulas are applied to aggregate the effective notionals and
          supervisory factors across all trades within each hedging set and finally at
          the asset-class level to give the asset class level add-on. The method of

           aggregation varies between asset classes and for credit, equity and
           commodity derivatives it also involves the application of supervisory
           correlation parameters to capture diversification of trades and basis risk.


Time period parameters: Mi, Ei, Si and Ti

52.31 There are four time period parameters that are used in the SA-CCR (all expressed
      in years):

      (1) For all asset classes, the maturity Mi of a contract is the time period (starting
           today) until the latest day when the contract may still be active. This time
           period appears in the maturity factor defined in CRE52.48 to CRE52.53 that
           scales down the adjusted notionals for unmargined trades for all asset
           classes. If a derivative contract has another derivative contract as its
           underlying (for example, a swaption) and may be physically exercised into
           the underlying contract (ie a bank would assume a position in the underlying
           contract in the event of exercise), then maturity of the contract is the time
           period until the final settlement date of the underlying derivative contract.

      (2) For interest rate and credit derivatives, Si is the period of time (starting
           today) until start of the time period referenced by an interest rate or credit
           contract. If the derivative references the value of another interest rate or
           credit instrument (eg swaption or bond option), the time period must be
           determined on the basis of the underlying instrument. Si appears in the
           definition of supervisory duration defined in CRE52.34.

      (3) For interest rate and credit derivatives, Ei is the period of time (starting
           today) until the end of the time period referenced by an interest rate or
           credit contract. If the derivative references the value of another interest rate
           or credit instrument (eg swaption or bond option), the time period must be
           determined on the basis of the underlying instrument. Ei appears in the
           definition of supervisory duration defined in CRE52.34. In addition, Ei is used
           for allocating derivatives in the interest rate asset class to maturity buckets,
           which are used in the calculation of the asset class add-on (see CRE52.57(3)).


       (4) For options in all asset classes, Ti is the time period (starting today) until the
           latest contractual exercise date as referenced by the contract. This period
           shall be used for the determination of the option’s supervisory delta in
           CRE52.38 to CRE52.41.

52.32 Table 1 includes example transactions and provides each transaction’s related
      maturity Mi, start date Si and end date Ei. In addition, the option delta in CRE52.38
       to CRE52.41 depends on the latest contractual exercise date Ti (not separately
       shown in the table).


                                                                       Table 1


                         Instrument                         Mi          Si          Ei


     Interest rate or credit default swap maturing in    10 years       0       10 years
     10 years

     10-year interest rate swap, forward starting in 5  years
 15 years    5 years    15
     years

     Forward rate agreement for time period starting in 6 months and ending in 12 months     1 year     0.5 year    1 year
     

     Cash-settled European swaption referencing 5-year interest rate swap with exercise date in 6
     months       0.5 year    0.5 year   5.5 years
     

     Physically-settled European swaption referencing 5-year interest rate swap with exercise date in 6
     months    5.5 years   0.5 year   5.5 years
     

     10-year Bermudan swaption with annual exercise dates      10 years    1 year     10 years
     

     Interest rate cap or floor specified for semi-annual interest rate with maturity 5 years      5 years        0        5 years
     

     Option on a bond maturing in 5 years with the latest exercise date in 1 year       1 year     1 year      5 years
     

     3-month Eurodollar futures that matures in 1 year    1 year     1 year     1.25 years


     Futures on 20-year treasury bond that matures in 2 years   2 years     2 years    22 years
     

     6-month option on 2-year futures on 20-year  treasury bond        2 years     2 years    22 years
    

     FAQ
     FAQ1      According to Table 1 in CRE52.32, the “3-month Eurodollar futures that
               matures in 1 year” has an Mi of 1 year and an Ei of 1.25 years. This is
               in accordance with CRE52.31. However, is this the correct treatment
               given that these contracts settle daily?

               The example of the three-month Eurodollar future in Table 1 did not
               include the effect of margining or settlement and would apply only in
               the case where a futures contract were neither margined nor settled.
               With regard to the remaining maturity parameter (Mi), CRE52.37(5)
               states: “For a derivative contract that is structured so that on specified
               dates any outstanding exposure is settled and the terms are reset so
               that the fair value of the contract is zero, the remaining maturity
               equals the time until the next reset date.” This means that exchanges
               where daily settlement occurs are different from exchanges where daily
               margining occurs. Trades with daily settlement should be treated as
               unmargined transactions with a maturity factor given by the formula
               in CRE52.48, with the parameter Mi set to its floor value of 10 business
               days. For trades subject to daily margining, the maturity factor is given
               in CRE52.52 depending on the margin period of risk (MPOR), which
               can be as short as five business days. With regard to the end date (Ei),
               the value of 1.25 years applies. Margining or daily settlement have no
               influence on the time period referenced by the interest rate contract.
               Note that, the parameter Ei defines the maturity bucket for the purpose
               of netting. This means that the trade in this example will be attributed
               to the intermediate maturity bucket “between one and five years” and
               not to the short maturity bucket “less than one year” irrespective of
               daily settlement.

     FAQ2      Regarding row 3 of Table 1, as forward rate agreements are cash-
               settled at the start of the underlying interest rate period (the “effective
               date”), the effective date represents the “end-of-risk” date, ie “M” in the
               SA-CCR notation. Therefore, in this example, should M be 0.5 years
               instead of 1 year.

               In Table 1 it is assumed that the payment is made at the end of the
               period (similar to vanilla interest rate swaps). If the payment is made at
               the beginning of the period, as it is typically the case according to
               market convention, M should indeed be 0.5 years.



Trade-level adjusted notional (for trade i): di

52.33 The adjusted notionals are defined at the trade level and take into account both
      the size of a position and its maturity dependency, if any.

52.34 For interest rate and credit derivatives, the trade-level adjusted notional is the
      product of the trade notional amount, converted to the domestic currency, and
      the supervisory duration SDi which is given by the formula below (ie di = notional
       * SDi). The calculated value of SDi is floored at ten business days. If the start date
       has occurred (eg an ongoing interest rate swap), Si must be set to zero.


Note there is a distinction between the time period of the underlying
                   transaction and the remaining maturity of the derivative contract. For
                   example, a European interest rate swaption with expiry of 1 year and
                   the term of the underlying swap of 5 years has Si = 1 year and Ei = 6
                   years.


52.35 For foreign exchange derivatives, the adjusted notional is defined as the notional
      of the foreign currency leg of the contract, converted to the domestic currency. If
      both legs of a foreign exchange derivative are denominated in currencies other
      than the domestic currency, the notional amount of each leg is converted to the
      domestic currency and the leg with the larger domestic currency value is the
      adjusted notional amount.

52.36 For equity and commodity derivatives, the adjusted notional is defined as the
      product of the current price of one unit of the stock or commodity (eg a share of
      equity or barrel of oil) and the number of units referenced by the trade.




       FAQ
       FAQ1       How should the definition of adjusted notional be applied to volatility
                  transactions such as equity volatility swaps mentioned in paragraph
                  CRE52.47?

                  For equity and commodity volatility transactions, the underlying
                  volatility or variance referenced by the transaction should replace the
                  unit price and contractual notional should replace the number of units.


52.37 In many cases the trade notional amount is stated clearly and fixed until maturity.
      When this is not the case, banks must use the following rules to determine the
      trade notional amount.

       (1) Where the notional is a formula of market values, the bank must enter the
           current market values to determine the trade notional amount.

       (2) For all interest rate and credit derivatives with variable notional amounts
           specified in the contract (such as amortising and accreting swaps), banks
           must use the average notional over the remaining life of the derivative as the
           trade notional amount. The average should be calculated as “time weighted”.
           The averaging described in this paragraph does not cover transactions where
           the notional varies due to price changes (typically, FX, equity and commodity
           derivatives).

       (3) Leveraged swaps must be converted to the notional of the equivalent
           unleveraged swap, that is, where all rates in a swap are multiplied by a factor,
           the stated notional must be multiplied by the factor on the interest rates to
           determine the trade notional amount.

       (4) For a derivative contract with multiple exchanges of principal, the notional is
           multiplied by the number of exchanges of principal in the derivative contract
           to determine the trade notional amount.

       (5) For a derivative contract that is structured such that on specified dates any
           outstanding exposure is settled and the terms are reset so that the fair value
           of the contract is zero, the remaining maturity equals the time until the next
           reset date.


Supervisory delta adjustments
52.38 The supervisory delta adjustment (𝛿i) parameters are also defined at the trade
       level and are applied to the adjusted notional amounts to reflect the direction of
       the transaction and its non-linearity.


52.39 The delta adjustments for all instruments that are not options and are not
      collateralised debt obligation (CDO) tranches are as set out in the table below:

                                        Long in the primary risk   Short in the primary risk factor
                                                 factor

           Instruments that are not
                                                  +1                             -1
           options or CDO tranches


“Long in the primary risk factor” means that the market value of the
                       instrument increases when the value of the primary risk factor
                       increases. “Short in the primary risk factor” means that the market
                       value of the instrument decreases when the value of the primary risk
                       factor increases.


52.40 The delta adjustments for options are set out in the table below, where:

       (1) The following are parameters that banks must determine appropriately:

               (a) Pi : Underlying price (spot, forward, average, etc)

               (b) Ki : Strike price

               (c)   Ti : Latest contractual exercise date of the option

       (2) The supervisory volatility σi of an option is specified on the basis of
               supervisory factor applicable to the trade (see Table 2 in CRE52.72).

     (3) The symbol Φ represents the standard normal cumulative distribution
         function.

                                           Bought                            Sold


            Call Options




            Put Options




     FAQ
     FAQ1         Why doesn’t the supervisory delta adjustment calculation take the risk-
                  free rate into account? It is identical to the Black-Scholes formula
                  except that it’s missing the risk-free rate.

                  Whenever appropriate, the forward (rather than spot) value of the
                  underlying in the supervisory delta adjustments formula should be
                  used in order to account for the risk-free rate as well as for possible
                  cash flows prior to the option expiry (such as dividends).

     FAQ2         How is the supervisory delta for options in CRE52.40 to be calculated
                  when the term P/K is zero or negative such that the term ln(P/K)
                  cannot be computed (eg as may be the case in a negative interest rate
                  environment)?

                  In such cases banks must incorporate a shift in the price value and
                  strike value by adding λ, where λ represents the presumed lowest
                  possible extent to which interest rates in the respective currency can
                  become negative. Therefore, the Delta δi for a transaction i in such
                  cases is calculated using the formula that follows. The same parameter
                  must be used consistently for all interest rate options in the same
                  currency. For each jurisdiction, and for each affected currency j, the
                  supervisor is encouraged to make a recommendation to banks for an
                  appropriate value of λj, with the objective to set it as low as possible.
                  Banks are permitted to use lower values if it suits their portfolios.

                    Delta (δ)             Bought                            Sold


                      Call
                     options


                      Put
                     options




52.41 The delta adjustments for CDO tranches are set out in the table below, where
      the following are parameters that banks must determine appropriately:

       (1) Ai : Attachment point of the CDO tranche

       (2) Di : Detachment point of the CDO tranche

                                  Purchased (long protection)    Sold (short protection)


            CDO tranches


 First-to-default, second-to-default and subsequent-to-default credit
                   derivative transactions should be treated as CDO tranches under SA-
                   CCR. For an nth-to-default transaction on a pool of m reference
                   names, banks must use an attachment point of A=(n–1)/m and a
                   detachment point of D=n/m in order to calculate the supervisory delta
                   formula set out CRE52.41.



Effective notional for options
52.42 For single-payment options the effective notional is calculated
      using the following specifications:

       (1) For European, Asian, American and Bermudan put and call options, the
           supervisory delta must be calculated using the simplified Black-Scholes
           formula referenced in CRE52.40. In the case of Asian options, the underlying
           price must be set equal to the current value of the average used in the
           payoff. In the case of American and Bermudan options, the latest allowed
           exercise date must be used as the exercise date Ti in the formula.

       (2) For Bermudan swaptions, the start date Si must be equal to the earliest
           allowed exercise date, while the end date Ei must be equal to the end date of
           the underlying swap.

       (3) For digital options, the payoff of each digital option (bought or sold) with
           strike Ki must be approximated via the “collar” combination of bought and
           sold European options of the same type (call or put), with the strikes set
           equal to 0.95∙Ki and 1.05∙Ki. The size of the position in the collar components
           must be such that the digital payoff is reproduced exactly outside the region
           between the two strikes. The effective notional is then computed for the
           bought and sold European components of the collar separately, using the
           option formulae for the supervisory delta referenced in CRE52.40 (the
           exercise date Ti and the current value of the underlying Pi of the digital
           option must be used). The absolute value of the digital-option effective
           notional must be capped by the ratio of the digital payoff to the relevant
           supervisory factor.

       (4) If a trade’s payoff can be represented as a combination of European option
           payoffs (eg collar, butterfly/calendar spread, straddle, strangle), each
           European option component must be treated as a separate trade.

52.43 For the purposes of effective notional calculations, multiple-payment options
      may be represented as a combination of single-payment options. In particular,
      interest rate caps/floors may be represented as the portfolio of individual caplets
      /floorlets, each of which is a European option on the floating interest rate over a
      specific coupon period. For each caplet/floorlet, Si and Ti are the time periods
       starting from the current date to the start of the coupon period, while Ei is the
       time period starting from the current date to the end of the coupon period.


Supervisory factors: SFi

52.44 Supervisory factors (SFi) are used, together with aggregation formulas, to convert
       effective notional amounts into the add-on for each hedging set. The way in
       which supervisory factors are used within the aggregation formulas varies
       between asset classes. The supervisory factors are listed in Table 2 under CRE52.72
     Each factor has been calibrated to result in an add-on that reflects the
                   Effective EPE of a single at-the-money linear trade of unit notional and
                   one-year maturity. This includes the estimate of realised volatilities
                   assumed by supervisors for each underlying asset class.



Hedging sets
52.45 The hedging sets in the different asset classes are defined as follows, except for
      those described in CRE52.46 and CRE52.47:

       (1) Interest rate derivatives consist of a separate hedging set for each currency.

       (2) FX derivatives consist of a separate hedging set for each currency pair.

       (3) Credit derivatives consist of a single hedging set.

       (4) Equity derivatives consist of a single hedging set.

       (5) Commodity derivatives consist of four hedging sets defined for broad
           categories of commodity derivatives: energy, metals, agricultural and other
           commodities.

52.46 Derivatives that reference the basis between two risk factors and are
      denominated in a single currency (basis transactions) must be treated within
      separate hedging sets within the corresponding asset class. There is a separate
      hedging set for each pair of risk factors (ie for each specific basis). Examples of
      specific bases include three-month Libor versus six-month Libor, three-month
      Libor versus three-month T-Bill, one-month Libor versus overnight indexed swap
      rate, Brent Crude oil versus Henry Hub gas. For hedging sets consisting of basis
      transactions, the supervisory factor applicable to a given asset class must be
      multiplied by one-half.

 Derivatives with two floating legs that are denominated in different
                   currencies (such as cross-currency swaps) are not subject to this
                   treatment; rather, they should be treated as non-basis foreign
                   exchange contracts.

Within this hedging set, long and short positions are determined with
                   respect to the basis.



52.47 Derivatives that reference the volatility of a risk factor (volatility transactions)
      must be treated within separate hedging sets within the corresponding asset
      class. Volatility hedging sets must follow the same hedging set construction
      outlined in CRE52.45 (for example, all equity volatility transactions form a single
      hedging set). Examples of volatility transactions include variance and volatility
      swaps, options on realised or implied volatility. For hedging sets consisting of
      volatility transactions, the supervisory factor applicable to a given asset class
      must be multiplied by a factor of five.


Maturity factors
52.48 The minimum time risk horizon for an unmargined transaction is the lesser of one
      year and the remaining maturity of the derivative contract, floored at ten
      business days. Therefore, the calculation of the effective notional for an
      unmargined transaction includes the following maturity factor, where Mi is the
       remaining maturity of transaction i, floored at 10 business days:


 For example, remaining maturity for a one-month option on a 10-year
                   Treasury bond is the one-month to expiration date of the derivative
                   contract. However, the end date of the transaction is the 10-year
                   remaining maturity on the Treasury bond.


52.49 The maturity parameter (Mi) is expressed in years but is subject to a floor of 10
       business days. Banks should use standard market convention to convert business
       days into years, and vice versa. For example, 250 business days in a year, which
       results in a floor of 10/250 years for Mi.

52.50 For margined transactions, the maturity factor is calculated using the margin
      period of risk (MPOR), subject to specified floors. That is, banks must first
      estimate the margin period of risk (as defined in CRE50.18) for each of their
      netting sets. They must then use the higher of their estimated margin period of
      risk and the relevant floor in the calculation of the maturity factor (CRE52.52). The
      floors for the margin period of risk are as follows:

       (1) Ten business days for non-centrally-cleared transactions subject to daily
           margin agreements.


      (2) The sum of nine business days plus the re-margining period for non-
          centrally cleared transactions that are not subject daily margin agreements.

      (3) The relevant floors for centrally cleared transactions are prescribed in the
          capital requirements for bank exposures to central counterparties (see CRE54
          ).

52.51 The following are exceptions to the floors on the minimum margin period of risk
      set out in CRE52.50 above:

      (1) For netting sets consisting of more than 5000 transactions that are not with a
          central counterparty the floor on the margin period of risk is 20 business
          days.

      (2) For netting sets containing one or more trades involving either illiquid
          collateral, or an OTC derivative that cannot be easily replaced, the floor on
          the margin period of risk is 20 business days. For these purposes, "Illiquid
          collateral" and "OTC derivatives that cannot be easily replaced" must be
          determined in the context of stressed market conditions and will be
          characterised by the absence of continuously active markets where a
          counterparty would, within two or fewer days, obtain multiple price
          quotations that would not move the market or represent a price reflecting a
          market discount (in the case of collateral) or premium (in the case of an OTC
          derivative). Examples of situations where trades are deemed illiquid for this
          purpose include, but are not limited to, trades that are not marked daily and
          trades that are subject to specific accounting treatment for valuation
          purposes (eg OTC derivatives transactions referencing securities whose fair
          value is determined by models with inputs that are not observed in the
          market).

      (3) If a bank has experienced more than two margin call disputes on a particular
          netting set over the previous two quarters that have lasted longer than the
          applicable margin period of risk (before consideration of this provision), then
          the bank must reflect this history appropriately by doubling the applicable
          supervisory floor on the margin period of risk for that netting set for the
          subsequent two quarters.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       In the case of non-centrally cleared derivatives that are subject to the
                  requirements of MGN20, what margin calls are to be taken into
                  account for the purpose counting the number of disputes according to
                  CRE52.51(3)?

                  In the case of non-centrally cleared derivatives that are subject to the
                  requirements of MGN20, CRE52.51(3) applies only to variation margin
                  call disputes.

       FAQ2       Regarding the reform of benchmark reference rates, does the extended
                  margin period of risk in CRE52.51(2) (SA-CCR) and CRE53.24(2) (IMM)
                  apply if the new benchmark rate experiences transitional illiquidity?

                  Until one year after the discontinuation of an old benchmark rate, any
                  transitional illiquidity of collateral and OTC derivatives that reference
                  the relevant new benchmark rate should not trigger the extended
                  margin period of risk in CRE52.51(2) for SA-CCR and CRE53.24(2) for
                  the IMM.


52.52 The calculation of the effective notional for a margined transaction includes the
      following maturity factor, where MPORi is the margin period of risk appropriate
       for the margin agreement containing the transaction i (subject to the floors set
       out in CRE52.50 and CRE52.51 above).




52.53 The margin period of risk (MPORi) is often expressed in days, but the calculation
       of the maturity factor for margined netting sets references 1 year in the
       denominator. Banks should use standard market convention to convert business
       days into years, and vice versa. For example, 1 year can be converted into 250
       business days in the denominator of the MF formula if MPOR is expressed in
       business days. Alternatively, the MPOR expressed in business days can be
       converted into years by dividing it by 250.

Supervisory correlation parameters
52.54 The supervisory correlation parameters (ρi) only apply to the PFE add-on
       calculation for equity, credit and commodity derivatives, and are set out in Table
       2 under CRE52.72. For these asset classes, the supervisory correlation parameters
       are derived from a single-factor model and specify the weight between
       systematic and idiosyncratic components. This weight determines the degree of
       offset between individual trades, recognising that imperfect hedges provide
       some, but not perfect, offset. Supervisory correlation parameters do not apply to
       interest rate and foreign exchange derivatives.


Asset class level add-ons
52.55 As set out in CRE52.25, the aggregate add-on for a netting set (AddOnaggregate) is
      calculated as the sum of the add-ons calculated for each asset class within the
      netting set. The sections that follow set out the calculation of the add-on for each
      asset class.


Add-on for interest rate derivatives
52.56 The calculation of the add-on for the interest rate derivative asset class captures
      the risk of interest rate derivatives of different maturities being imperfectly
      correlated. It does this by allocating trades to maturity buckets, in which full
      offsetting of long and short positions is permitted, and by using an aggregation
      formula that only permits limited offsetting between maturity buckets. This
      allocation of derivatives to maturity buckets and the process of aggregation
      (steps 3 to 5 below) are only used in the interest rate derivative asset class.

52.57 The add-on for the interest rate derivative asset class (AddOnIR) within a netting
      set is calculated using the following steps:

       (1) Step 1: Calculate the effective notional for each trade in the netting set that
           is in the interest rate derivative asset class. This is calculated as the product
           of the following three terms: (i) the adjusted notional of the trade (d); (ii) the
           supervisory delta adjustment of the trade (δ); and (iii) the maturity factor
           (MF). That is, for each trade i, the effective notional Di is calculated as , where each term is as defined in CRE52.33 to CRE52.53.

       (2) Step 2: Allocate the trades in the interest rate derivative asset class to
           hedging sets. In the interest rate derivative asset class the hedging sets
           consist of all the derivatives that reference the same currency.




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                                504/1626
     (3) Step 3: Within each hedging set allocate each of the trades to the following
         three maturity buckets: less than one year (bucket 1), between one and five
         years (bucket 2) and more than five years (bucket 3).

     (4) Step 4: Calculate the effective notional of each maturity bucket by adding
         together all the trade level effective notionals calculated in step 1 of the
         trades within the maturity bucket. Let DB1, DB2 and DB3 be the effective
         notionals of buckets 1, 2 and 3 respectively.

     (5) Step 5: Calculate the effective notional of the hedging set (ENHS) by using either of the tw
         following aggregation formulas (the latter is to be used if the bank chooses not to recogn
         offsets between long and short positions across maturity buckets):




     (6) Step 6: Calculate the hedging set level add-on (AddOnHS) by multiplying the
         effective notional of the hedging set (ENHS) by the prescribed supervisory
         factor (SFHS). The prescribed supervisory factor in the interest rate asset class
         is set at 0.5%, which means that AddOnHS = ENHS * 0.005.

     (7) Step 7: Calculate the asset class level add-on (AddOnIR) by adding together
         all of the hedging set level add-ons calculated in step 6:




     FAQ
     FAQ1       Are banks permitted to treat inflation derivatives (which SA-CCR does
                not specifically assign to a particular asset class) in the same manner
                as they treat interest rate derivatives and subject them to the same
                0.5% supervisory factor?

                Yes. Banks may treat inflation derivatives in the same manner as
                interest rate derivatives. Derivatives referencing inflation rates for the
                same currency should form a separate hedging set and should be
                subjected to the same 0.5% supervisory factor. AddOn amounts from
                inflation derivatives must be added to AddOnIR.


Add-on for foreign exchange derivatives
52.58 The steps to calculate the add-on for the foreign exchange derivative asset class
      are similar to the steps for the interest rate derivative asset class, except that
      there is no allocation of trades to maturity buckets (which means that there is full
      offsetting of long and short positions within the hedging sets of the foreign
      exchange derivative asset class).

52.59 The add-on for the foreign exchange derivative asset class (AddOnFX) within a
      netting set is calculated using the following steps:

       (1) Step 1: Calculate the effective notional for each trade in the netting set that
           is in the foreign exchange derivative asset class. This is calculated as the
           product of the following three terms: (i) the adjusted notional of the trade
           (d); (ii) the supervisory delta adjustment of the trade (δ); and (iii) the maturity
           factor (MF). That is, for each trade i, the effective notional Di is calculated as D

           i
               = di * MFi * δi, where each term is as defined in CRE52.33 to CRE52.53.

       (2) Step 2: Allocate the trades in the foreign exchange derivative asset class to
           hedging sets. In the foreign exchange derivative asset class the hedging sets
           consist of all the derivatives that reference the same currency pair.

       (3) Step 3: Calculate the effective notional of each hedging set (ENHS) by adding
           together the trade level effective notionals calculated in step 1.

       (4) Step 4: Calculate the hedging set level add-on (AddOnHS) by multiplying the
           absolute value of the effective notional of the hedging set (ENHS) by the
           prescribed supervisory factor (SFHS). The prescribed supervisory factor in the
           foreign exchange derivative asset class is set at 4%, which means that 

       (5) Step 5: Calculate the asset class level add-on (AddOnFX) by adding together
           all of the hedging set level add-ons calculated in step 5:



       FAQ
       FAQ1        In SA-CCR, the calculation of the supervisory delta for foreign
                   exchange options depends on the convention taken with respect to the
                   ordering of the respective currency pair. For example, a call option on
                   EUR/USD is economically identical to a put option in USD/EUR.
                   Nevertheless, the calculation of the supervisory delta leads to different
                   results in the two cases. Which convention should banks select for each
                   currency pair?

                   For each currency pair, the same ordering convention must be used
                   consistently across the bank and over time. The convention is to be
                   chosen in such a way that it corresponds best to the market practice for
                   how derivatives in the respective currency pair are usually quoted and
                   traded.



Add-on for credit derivatives
52.60 The calculation of the add-on for the credit derivative asset class only gives full
      recognition of the offsetting of long and short positions for derivatives that
      reference the same entity (eg the same corporate issuer of bonds). Partial
      offsetting is recognised between derivatives that reference different entities in
      step 4 below. The formula used in step 4 is explained further in CRE52.62 to
      CRE52.64.

52.61 The add-on for the credit derivative asset class (AddOnCredit) within a netting set is
      calculated using the following steps:

       (1) Step 1: Calculate the effective notional for each trade in the netting set that
           is in the credit derivative asset class. This is calculated as the product of the
           following three terms: (i) the adjusted notional of the trade (d); (ii) the
           supervisory delta adjustment of the trade (δ); and (iii) the maturity factor
           (MF). That is, for each trade i, the effective notional Di is calculated as Di = di
            * MFi * δi, where each term is as defined in CRE52.33 to CRE52.53.

       (2) Step 2: Calculate the combined effective notional for all derivatives that
           reference the same entity. Each separate credit index that is referenced by
           derivatives in the credit derivative asset class should be treated as a separate
           entity. The combined effective notional of the entity (ENentity) is calculated
            by adding together the trade level effective notionals calculated in step 1
            that reference that entity.


       (3) Step 3: Calculate the add-on for each entity (AddOnentity) by multiplying the
            combined effective notional for that entity calculated in step 2 by the
            supervisory factor that is specified for that entity (SFentity). The supervisory
            factors vary according to the credit rating of the entity in the case of single
            name derivatives, and whether the index is considered investment grade or
            non-investment grade in the case of derivatives that reference an index. The
            supervisory factors are set out in Table 2 in CRE52.72.

       (4) Step 4: Calculate the asset class level add-on (AddOnCredit) by using the
           formula that follows. In the formula the summations are across all entities
           referenced by the derivatives, AddOnentity is the add-on amount calculated
            in step 3 for each entity referenced by the derivatives and ρentity is the
            supervisory prescribed correlation factor corresponding to the entity. As set
            out in Table 2 in CRE52.72, the correlation factor is 50% for single entities
            and 80% for indices.




52.62 The formula to recognise partial offsetting in CRE52.61(4) above, is a single-factor
      model, which divides the risk of the credit derivative asset class into a systematic
      component and an idiosyncratic component. The entity-level add-ons are
      allowed to offset each other fully in the systematic component; whereas, there is
      no offsetting benefit in the idiosyncratic component. These two components are
      weighted by a correlation factor which determines the degree of offsetting
      /hedging benefit within the credit derivatives asset class. The higher the
      correlation factor, the higher the importance of the systematic component, hence
      the higher the degree of offsetting benefits.

52.63 It should be noted that a higher or lower correlation does not necessarily mean a
      higher or lower capital requirement. For portfolios consisting of long and short
      credit positions, a high correlation factor would reduce the charge. For portfolios
      consisting exclusively of long positions (or short positions), a higher correlation
      factor would increase the charge. If most of the risk consists of systematic risk,
      then individual reference entities would be highly correlated and long and short
      positions should offset each other. If, however, most of the risk is idiosyncratic to
      a reference entity, then individual long and short positions would not be effective
      hedges for each other.


52.64 The use of a single hedging set for credit derivatives implies that credit
      derivatives from different industries and regions are equally able to offset the
      systematic component of an exposure, although they would not be able to offset
      the idiosyncratic portion. This approach recognises that meaningful distinctions
      between industries and/or regions are complex and difficult to analyse for global
      conglomerates.


Add-on for equity derivatives
52.65 The calculation of the add-on for the equity derivative asset class is very similar to
      the calculation of the add-on for the credit derivative asset class. It only gives full
      recognition of the offsetting of long and short positions for derivatives that
      reference the same entity (eg the same corporate issuer of shares). Partial
      offsetting is recognised between derivatives that reference different entities in
      step 4 below.

52.66 The add-on for the equity derivative asset class (AddOnEquity) within a netting set
      is calculated using the following steps:

       (1) Step 1: Calculate the effective notional for each trade in the netting set that
           is in the equity derivative asset class. This is calculated as the product of the
           following three terms: (i) the adjusted notional of the trade (d); (ii) the
           supervisory delta adjustment of the trade (δ); and (iii) the maturity factor
           (MF). That is, for each trade i, the effective notional Di is calculated as Di = di
            * MFi * δi, where each term is as defined in CRE52.33 to CRE52.53.

       (2) Step 2: Calculate the combined effective notional for all derivatives that
           reference the same entity. Each separate equity index that is referenced by
           derivatives in the equity derivative asset class should be treated as a separate
           entity. The combined effective notional of the entity (ENentity) is calculated
            by adding together the trade level effective notionals calculated in step 1
            that reference that entity.

       (3) Step 3: Calculate the add-on for each entity (AddOnentity) by multiplying the
            combined effective notional for that entity calculated in step 2 by the
            supervisory factor that is specified for that entity (SFentity). The supervisory
            factors are set out in Table 2 in CRE52.72 and vary according to whether the
            entity is a single name (SFentity = 32%) or an index (SFentity =20%).


       (4) Step 4: Calculate the asset class level add-on (AddOnEquity) by using the
           formula that follows. In the formula the summations are across all entities
           referenced by the derivatives, AddOnentity is the add-on amount calculated
            in step 3 for each entity referenced by the derivatives and ρentity is the
            supervisory prescribed correlation factor corresponding to the entity. As set
            out in Table 2 in CRE52.72, the correlation factor is 50% for single entities
            and 80% for indices.




52.67 The supervisory factors for equity derivatives were calibrated based on estimates
      of the market volatility of equity indices, with the application of a conservative
      beta factor to translate this estimate into an estimate of individual volatilities.

The beta of an individual equity measures the volatility of the stock
                   relative to a broad market index. A value of beta greater than one
                   means the individual equity is more volatile than the index. The
                   greater the beta is, the more volatile the stock. The beta is calculated
                   by running a linear regression of the stock on the broad index.


52.68 Banks are not permitted to make any modelling assumptions in the calculation of
      the PFE add-ons, including estimating individual volatilities or taking publicly
      available estimates of beta. This is a pragmatic approach to ensure a consistent
      implementation across jurisdictions but also to keep the add-on calculation
      relatively simple and prudent. Therefore, bank must only use the two values of
      supervisory factors that are defined for equity derivatives, one for single entities
      and one for indices.


Add-on for commodity derivatives
52.69 The calculation of the add-on for the commodity derivative asset class is similar
      to the calculation of the add-on for the credit and equity derivative asset classes.
      It recognises the full offsetting of long and short positions for derivatives that
      reference the same type of underlying commodity. It also allows partial offsetting
      between derivatives that reference different types of commodity, however, this
      partial offsetting is only permitted within each of the four hedging sets of the
      commodity derivative asset class, where the different commodity types are more
      likely to demonstrate some stable, meaningful joint dynamics. Offsetting between
      hedging sets is not recognised (eg a forward contract on crude oil cannot hedge
      a forward contract on corn).

52.70 The add-on for the commodity derivative asset class (AddOnCommodity) within a
      netting set is calculated using the following steps:

       (1) Step 1: Calculate the effective notional for each trade in the netting set that
           is in the commodity derivative asset class. This is calculated as the product of
           the following three terms: (i) the adjusted notional of the trade (d); (ii) the
           supervisory delta adjustment of the trade (δ); and (iii) the maturity factor
           (MF). That is, for each trade i, the effective notional Di is calculated as Di = di
           * MFi * δi, where each term is as defined in CRE52.33 to CRE52.53.

       (2) Step 2: Allocate the trades in commodity derivative asset class to hedging
           sets. In the commodity derivative asset class there are four hedging sets
           consisting of derivatives that reference: energy, metals, agriculture and other
           commodities.

       (3) Step 3: Calculate the combined effective notional for all derivatives with each
           hedging set that reference the same commodity type (eg all derivative that
           reference copper within the metals hedging set). The combined effective
           notional of the commodity type (ENComType) is calculated by adding
           together the trade level effective notionals calculated in step 1 that reference
           that commodity type.

       (4) Step 4: Calculate the add-on for each commodity type (AddOnComType)
           within each hedging set by multiplying the combined effective notional for
           that commodity calculated in step 3 by the supervisory factor that is
           specified for that commodity type (SFComType). The supervisory factors are
           set out in Table 2 in CRE52.72 and are set at 40% for electricity derivatives
           and 18% for derivatives that reference all other types of commodities.




       (5) Step 5: Calculate the add-on for each of the four commodity hedging sets by using the formula that follows. In the formula the summations are across all
           commodity types within the hedging set, AddOnComType is the add-on amount
           calculated in step 4 for each commodity type and ρComType is the supervisory
           prescribed correlation factor corresponding to the commodity type. As set out in
           Table 2 in CRE52.72, the correlation factor is set at 40% for all commodity types.




       (6) Step 6: Calculate the asset class level add-on (AddOnCommodity) by adding
           together all of the hedging set level add-ons calculated in step 5:




52.71 Regarding the calculation steps above, defining individual commodity types is
      operationally difficult. In fact, it is impossible to fully specify all relevant
      distinctions between commodity types so that all basis risk is captured. For
      example crude oil could be a commodity type within the energy hedging set, but
      in certain cases this definition could omit a substantial basis risk between
      different types of crude oil (West Texas Intermediate, Brent, Saudi Light, etc).
      Also, the four commodity type hedging sets have been defined without regard to
      characteristics such as location and quality. For example, the energy hedging set
      contains commodity types such as crude oil, electricity, natural gas and coal.
      National supervisors may require banks to use more refined definitions of
      commodities when they are significantly exposed to the basis risk of different
      products within those commodity types.


Supervisory specified parameters
52.72 Table 2 includes the supervisory factors, correlations and supervisory option
      volatility add-ons for each asset class and subclass.


      Summary table of supervisory parameters                                           Table 2


         Asset Class         Subclass   Supervisory factor   Correlation   Supervisory option
                                                                                volatility

     Interest rate                              0.50%           N/A               50%


     Foreign exchange                           4.0%            N/A               15%

     Credit, Single Name
                    AAA                    0.38%           50%              100%

                         AA                     0.38%           50%              100%

                         A                      0.42%           50%              100%

                         BBB                    0.54%           50%              100%

                         BB                     1.06%           50%              100%

                         B                      1.6%            50%              100%

                         CCC                    6.0%            50%              100%

     Credit, Index       IG                     0.38%           80%               80%

                         SG                     1.06%           80%               80%

     Equity, Single Name
                                           32%             50%              120%

     Equity, Index                              20%             80%               75%

     Commodity           Electricity            40%             40%              150%

                         Oil/Gas                18%             40%               70%

                         Metals                 18%             40%               70%

                         Agricultural           18%             40%               70%

                         Other                  18%             40%               70%


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Should a 50% supervisory option volatility on swaptions for all
                   currencies be used?

                   Yes.

       FAQ2        Are the supervisory volatilities in the table in paragraph CRE52.72
                   recommended or required?

                   They are required. They must be used for calculating the supervisory
                   delta of options.


52.73 For a hedging set consisting of basis transactions, the supervisory factor
      applicable to its relevant asset class must be multiplied by one-half. For a
      hedging set consisting of volatility transactions, the supervisory factor applicable
      to its relevant asset class must be multiplied by a factor of five.


Treatment of multiple margin agreements and multiple netting sets
52.74 If multiple margin agreements apply to a single netting set, the netting set must
      be divided into sub-netting sets that align with their respective margin
      agreement. This treatment applies to both RC and PFE components.


     FAQ
     FAQ1      How should multiple margin agreements be treated in a single netting
               agreement?

               The SA-CCR standard provides two distinct methods of calculating
               exposure at default: one for “margined transactions” and one for
               “unmargined transactions.” A “margined transaction” should be
               understood as a derivative transaction covered by a margin agreement
               such that the bank’s counterparty must post variation margin to the
               bank. All derivative transactions that are not “margined” in this sense
               should be treated as “unmargined transactions.” This distinction of
               “margined” or “unmargined” for the purposes of SA-CCR is unrelated
               to initial margin requirements of the transaction.

               The SA-CCR standard implicitly assumes the following generic
               variation margin set-up: either (i) the entire netting set consists
               exclusively of unmargined trades, or (ii) the entire netting set consists
               exclusively of margined trades covered by the same variation margin
               agreement. CRE52.74 should be applied in either of the following cases:
               (i) the netting set consist of both margined and unmargined trades; (ii)
               the netting set consists of margined trades covered by different
               variation margin agreements.

               Under CRE52.74, the replacement cost (RC) is calculated for the entire
               netting set via the formula for margined trades in CRE52.18. The inputs
               to the formula should be interpreted as follows:

                    V is the value of all derivative transactions (both margined and
                    unmargined) in the netting set;
                    C is the haircut value of net collateral held by the bank for all
                    derivative transactions within the netting set;
                    TH is the sum of the counterparty thresholds across all variation
                    margin agreements within the netting set;
                    MTA is the sum of the minimum transfer amounts across all
                    variation margin agreements within the netting set;

               Under CRE52.74, the potential future exposure (PFE) for the netting set
               is calculated as the product of the aggregate add-on and the multiplier
               (per CRE52.20). The multiplier of the netting set is calculated via the
               formula in CRE52.23, with the inputs V and C interpreted as described
               above. The aggregate add-on for the netting set (also to be used as an
               input to the multiplier) is calculated as the sum of the aggregated add-
               ons calculated for each sub-netting set. The sub-netting sets are
               constructed as follows:


                         all unmargined transactions within the netting set form a single
                         sub-netting set;
                         all margined transactions within the netting set that share the
                         same margin period of risk (MPOR) form a single sub-netting set.


52.75 If a single margin agreement applies to several netting sets, special treatment is
      necessary because it is problematic to allocate the common collateral to
      individual netting sets. The replacement cost at any given time is determined by
      the sum of two terms. The first term is equal to the unmargined current exposure
      of the bank to the counterparty aggregated across all netting sets within the
      margin agreement reduced by the positive current net collateral (ie collateral is
      subtracted only when the bank is a net holder of collateral). The second term is
      non-zero only when the bank is a net poster of collateral: it is equal to the current
      net posted collateral (if there is any) reduced by the unmargined current
      exposure of the counterparty to the bank aggregated across all netting sets
      within the margin agreement. Net collateral available to the bank should include
      both VM and NICA. Mathematically, RC for the entire margin agreement is
      calculated as follows, where:

       (1) where the summation NS ∈ MA is across the netting sets covered by the
            margin agreement (hence the notation)

       (2) VNS is the current mark-to-market value of the netting set NS and CMA is the cash
           equivalent value of all currently available collateral under the margin agreement




52.76 Where a single margin agreement applies to several netting sets as described in
      CRE52.75 above, collateral will be exchanged based on mark-to-market values
      that are netted across all transactions covered under the margin agreement,
      irrespective of netting sets. That is, collateral exchanged on a net basis may not
      be sufficient to cover PFE. In this situation, therefore, the PFE add-on must be
      calculated according to the unmargined methodology. Netting set-level PFEs are
       then aggregated using the following formula, where  is the PFE add-
       on for the netting set NS calculated according to the unmargined requirements:

     FAQ
     FAQ1      How must a bank calculate the potential future exposure (PFE) in a
               case in which a single margin agreement applies to multiple netting
               sets?

               According to CRE52.76, the aggregate add-on for each netting set
               under the variation margin agreement is calculated according to the
               unmargined methodology. For the calculation of the multiplier (CRE52.
               23) of the PFE of each of the individual netting sets covered by a single
               margin agreement or collateral amount, the available collateral C
               (which, in the case of a variation margin agreement, includes variation
               margin posted or received) should be allocated to the netting sets as
               follows:

                    If the bank is a net receiver of collateral (C>0), all of the
                    individual amounts allocated to the individual netting sets must
                    also be positive or zero. Netting sets with positive market values
                    must first be allocated collateral up to the amount of those
                    market values. Only after all positive market values have been
                    compensated may surplus collateral be attributed freely among
                    all netting sets.
                    If the bank is a net provider of collateral (C<0), all of the
                    individual amounts allocated to the individual netting sets must
                    also be negative or zero. Netting sets with negative market
                    values must first be allocated collateral up to the amount of their
                    market values. If the collateral provided is larger than the sum of
                    the negative market values, then all multipliers must be set equal
                    to 1 and no allocation is necessary.
                    The allocated parts must add up to the total collateral available
                    for the margin agreement.

               Apart from these limitations, banks may allocate available collateral at
               their discretion.

               The multiplier is then calculated per netting set according to CRE52.23
               taking the allocated amount of collateral into account.


Treatment of collateral taken outside of netting sets
52.77 Eligible collateral which is taken outside a netting set, but is available to a bank to
      offset losses due to counterparty default on one netting set only, should be
      treated as an independent collateral amount associated with the netting set and
      used within the calculation of replacement cost under CRE52.10 when the netting
      set is unmargined and under CRE52.18 when the netting set is margined. Eligible
      collateral which is taken outside a netting set, and is available to a bank to offset
      losses due to counterparty default on more than one netting set, should be
      treated as collateral taken under a margin agreement applicable to multiple
      netting sets, in which case the treatment under CRE52.75 and CRE52.76 applies. If
      eligible collateral is available to offset losses on non-derivatives exposures as well
      as exposures determined using the SA-CCR, only that portion of the collateral
      assigned to the derivatives may be used to reduce the derivatives exposure.


                                 CRE53
                                 Internal models method for
                                 counterparty credit risk
                                 This chapter sets out the internal models
                                 method for counterparty credit risk.


                             Approval to adopt an internal models method to estimate EAD
53.1   A bank (meaning the individual legal entity or a group) that wishes to adopt an
       internal models method to measure exposure or exposure at default (EAD) for
       regulatory capital purposes must seek approval from its supervisor. The internal
       models method is available both for banks that adopt the internal ratings-based
       approach to credit risk and for banks for which the standardised approach to
       credit risk applies to all of their credit risk exposures. The bank must meet all of
       the requirements given in CRE53.6 to CRE53.60 and must apply the method to all
       of its exposures that are subject to counterparty credit risk, except for long
       settlement transactions.

53.2   A bank may also choose to adopt an internal models method to measure
       counterparty credit risk (CCR) for regulatory capital purposes for its exposures or
       EAD to only over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives, to only securities financing
       transactions (SFTs), or to both, subject to the appropriate recognition of netting
       specified in CRE53.61 to CRE53.71. The bank must apply the method to all
       relevant exposures within that category, except for those that are immaterial in
       size and risk. During the initial implementation of the internal models method, a
       bank may use the Standardised Approach for counterparty credit risk for a
       portion of its business. The bank must submit a plan to its supervisor to bring all
       material exposures for that category of transactions under the internal models
       method.

53.3   For all OTC derivative transactions and for all long settlement transactions for
       which a bank has not received approval from its supervisor to use the internal
       models method, the bank must use the standardised approach to counterparty
       credit risk (SA-CCR, CRE52).

53.4   Exposures or EAD arising from long settlement transactions can be determined
       using either of the methods identified in this document regardless of the
       methods chosen for treating OTC derivatives and SFTs. In computing capital
       requirements for long settlement transactions banks that hold permission to use
       the internal ratings-based approach may opt to apply the risk weights under this
       Framework’s standardised approach for credit risk on a permanent basis and
       irrespective to the materiality of such positions.

53.5   After adoption of the internal models method, the bank must comply with the
       above requirements on a permanent basis. Only under exceptional circumstances
       or for immaterial exposures can a bank revert to the standardised approach for
       counterparty credit risk for all or part of its exposure. The bank must demonstrate
       that reversion to a less sophisticated method does not lead to an arbitrage of the
       regulatory capital rules.


Exposure amount or EAD under the internal models method
53.6   CCR exposure or EAD is measured at the level of the netting set as defined in
       CRE50 and CRE53.61 to CRE53.71. A qualifying internal model for measuring
       counterparty credit exposure must specify the forecasting distribution for
       changes in the market value of the netting set attributable to changes in market
       variables, such as interest rates, foreign exchange rates, etc. The model then
       computes the bank’s CCR exposure for the netting set at each future date given
       the changes in the market variables. For margined counterparties, the model may
       also capture future collateral movements. Banks may include eligible financial
       collateral as defined in CRE22.37 and CRE55.2 in their forecasting distributions for
       changes in the market value of the netting set, if the quantitative, qualitative and
       data requirements for internal models method are met for the collateral.

53.7   As set out in RBC20.8, banks that use the internal models method must calculate
       credit RWA as the higher of two amounts, one based on current parameter
       estimates and one based on stressed parameter estimates. Specifically, to
       determine the default risk capital requirement for counterparty credit risk, banks
       must use the greater of the portfolio-level capital requirement (not including the
       credit valuation adjustment, or CVA, charge in MAR50) based on Effective
       expected positive exposure (EPE) using current market data and the portfolio-
       level capital requirement based on Effective EPE using a stress calibration. The
       stress calibration should be a single consistent stress calibration for the whole
       portfolio of counterparties. The greater of Effective EPE using current market data
       and the stress calibration should not be applied on a counterparty by
       counterparty basis, but on a total portfolio level.

53.8   To the extent that a bank recognises collateral in EAD via current exposure, a
       bank would not be permitted to recognise the benefits in its estimates of loss-
       given-default (LGD). As a result, the bank would be required to use an LGD of an
       otherwise similar uncollateralised facility. In other words, the bank would be
       required to use an LGD that does not include collateral that is already included in
       EAD.

53.9   Under the internal models method, the bank need not employ a single model.
       Although the following text describes an internal model as a simulation model,
       no particular form of model is required. Analytical models are acceptable so long
       as they are subject to supervisory review, meet all of the requirements set forth in
       this section and are applied to all material exposures subject to a CCR-related
       capital requirement as noted above, with the exception of long settlement
       transactions, which are treated separately, and with the exception of those
       exposures that are immaterial in size and risk.


53.10

        Expected exposure or peak exposure measures should be calculated based on a
        distribution of exposures that accounts for the possible non-normality of the
        distribution of exposures, including the existence of leptokurtosis (“fat tails”),
        where appropriate.

53.11 When using an internal model, exposure amount or EAD is calculated as the
      product of alpha times Effective EPE, as specified below (except for counterparties
      that have been identified as having explicit specific wrong way risk – see CRE53.48
      ):




53.12 Effective EPE is computed by estimating expected exposure (EEt) as the average
        exposure at future date t, where the average is taken across possible future
        values of relevant market risk factors, such as interest rates, foreign exchange
        rates, etc. The internal model estimates EE at a series of future dates t1, t2, t3…
        Specifically, “Effective EE” is computed recursively using the following formula,
        where the current date is denoted as t0 and Effective EEt0 equals current exposure:



In theory, the expectations should be taken with respect to the actual
                    probability distribution of future exposure and not the risk-neutral one.
                    Supervisors recognise that practical considerations may make it more
                    feasible to use the risk-neutral one. As a result, supervisors will not
                    mandate which kind of forecasting distribution to employ.


53.13 In this regard, “Effective EPE” is the average Effective EE during the first year of
      future exposure. If all contracts in the netting set mature before one year, EPE is
      the average of expected exposure until all contracts in the netting set mature.
      Effective EPE is computed as a weighted average of Effective EE, using the
      following formula where the weights Δtk = tk – tk-1 allows for the case when
        future exposure is calculated at dates that are not equally spaced over time:

53.14 Alpha (α) is set equal to 1.4.

53.15 Supervisors have the discretion to require a higher alpha based on a bank’s CCR
      exposures. Factors that may require a higher alpha include the low granularity of
      counterparties; particularly high exposures to general wrong-way risk; particularly
      high correlation of market values across counterparties; and other institution-
      specific characteristics of CCR exposures.


Own estimates for alpha
53.16 Banks may seek approval from their supervisors to compute internal estimates of
      alpha subject to a floor of 1.2, where alpha equals the ratio of economic capital
      from a full simulation of counterparty exposure across counterparties (numerator)
      and economic capital based on EPE (denominator), assuming they meet certain
      operating requirements. Eligible banks must meet all the operating requirements
      for internal estimates of EPE and must demonstrate that their internal estimates
      of alpha capture in the numerator the material sources of stochastic dependency
      of distributions of market values of transactions or of portfolios of transactions
      across counterparties (eg the correlation of defaults across counterparties and
      between market risk and default).

53.17 In the denominator, EPE must be used as if it were a fixed outstanding loan
      amount.

53.18 To this end, banks must ensure that the numerator and denominator of alpha are
      computed in a consistent fashion with respect to the modelling methodology,
      parameter specifications and portfolio composition. The approach used must be
      based on the bank’s internal economic capital approach, be well-documented
      and be subject to independent validation. In addition, banks must review their
      estimates on at least a quarterly basis, and more frequently when the
      composition of the portfolio varies over time. Banks must assess the model risk
      and supervisors should be alert to the significant variation in estimates of alpha
      that arises from the possibility for mis-specification in the models used for the
      numerator, especially where convexity is present.

53.19 Where appropriate, volatilities and correlations of market risk factors used in the
      joint simulation of market and credit risk should be conditioned on the credit risk
      factor to reflect potential increases in volatility or correlation in an economic
      downturn. Internal estimates of alpha should take account of the granularity of
      exposures.



Maturity
53.20 If the original maturity of the longest-dated contract contained in the set is
      greater than one year, the formula for effective maturity (M) in CRE32.42 is
      replaced with formula that follows, where dfk is the risk-free discount factor for
       future time period tk and the remaining symbols are defined above. Similar to the
       treatment under corporate exposures, M has a cap of five years.


Conceptually, M equals the effective credit duration of the counterparty
                   exposure. A bank that uses an internal model to calculate a one-sided
                   credit valuation adjustment (CVA) can use the effective credit duration
                   estimated by such a model in place of the above formula with prior
                   approval of its supervisor.


53.21 For netting sets in which all contracts have an original maturity of less than one
      year, the formula for effective maturity (M) in CRE32.42 is unchanged and a floor
      of one year applies, with the exception of short-term exposures as described in
      CRE32.45 to CRE32.48.


Margin agreements
53.22 If the netting set is subject to a margin agreement and the internal model
      captures the effects of margining when estimating EE, the model’s EE measure
      may be used directly in equation (2). Such models are noticeably more
      complicated than models of EPE for unmargined counterparties. As such, they are
      subject to a higher degree of supervisory scrutiny before they are approved, as
      discussed below.

53.23 An EPE model must also include transaction-specific information in order to
      capture the effects of margining. It must take into account both the current
      amount of margin and margin that would be passed between counterparties in
      the future. Such a model must account for the nature of margin agreements
      (unilateral or bilateral), the frequency of margin calls, the margin period of risk,
      the thresholds of unmargined exposure the bank is willing to accept, and the
       minimum transfer amount. Such a model must either model the mark-to-market
       change in the value of collateral posted or apply this Framework’s rules for
       collateral.

53.24 For transactions subject to daily re-margining and mark-to-market valuation, a
      supervisory floor of five business days for netting sets consisting only of repo-
      style transactions, and 10 business days for all other netting sets is imposed on
      the margin period of risk used for the purpose of modelling EAD with margin
      agreements. In the following cases a higher supervisory floor is imposed:

       (1) For all netting sets where the number of trades exceeds 5000 at any point
           during a quarter, a supervisory floor of 20 business days is imposed for the
           margin period of risk for the following quarter.

       (2) For netting sets containing one or more trades involving either illiquid
           collateral, or an OTC derivative that cannot be easily replaced, a supervisory
           floor of 20 business days is imposed for the margin period of risk. For these
           purposes, "Illiquid collateral" and "OTC derivatives that cannot be easily
           replaced" must be determined in the context of stressed market conditions
           and will be characterised by the absence of continuously active markets
           where a counterparty would, within two or fewer days, obtain multiple price
           quotations that would not move the market or represent a price reflecting a
           market discount (in the case of collateral) or premium (in the case of an OTC
           derivative). Examples of situations where trades are deemed illiquid for this
           purpose include, but are not limited to, trades that are not marked daily and
           trades that are subject to specific accounting treatment for valuation
           purposes (eg OTC derivatives or repo-style transactions referencing
           securities whose fair value is determined by models with inputs that are not
           observed in the market).

       (3) In addition, a bank must consider whether trades or securities it holds as
           collateral are concentrated in a particular counterparty and if that
           counterparty exited the market precipitously whether the bank would be
           able to replace its trades.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Is it correct that the margin period of risk is netting set dependent and
                   not on an aggregated basis across a counterparty?

                   Yes, the margin period of risk (MPOR) applies to a netting set. This
                   extends only to a counterparty if all transactions with this counterparty
                   are in one margined netting set.

       FAQ2        Is it correct that where there is illiquidity of transactions or collateral,
                   the margin period of risk immediately changes, as opposed to the
                   criteria for number of trades in a netting set or collateral dispute which
                   has a lag effect?

                   That is correct.

       FAQ3        Where the margin period of risk is increased above the minimum, for
                   instance due to the inclusion of an illiquid trade, when the Expected
                   Exposure is calculated should the margin period of risk be reduced to
                   the minimum for tenors beyond the expected expiry of the event (the
                   expected maturity of the illiquid trade, in this example)?

                   The extension of the margin period of risk (MPOR) is ruled by market
                   liquidity considerations. That means liquidation of respective positions
                   might take more time than the standard MPOR. In very rare cases
                   market liquidity horizons are as long as the maturity of these positions.

       FAQ4        Regarding the reform of benchmark reference rates, does the extended
                   margin period of risk in CRE52.51(2) (SA-CCR) and CRE53.24(2) (IMM)
                   apply if the new benchmark rate experiences transitional illiquidity?

                   Until one year after the discontinuation of an old benchmark rate, any
                   transitional illiquidity of collateral and OTC derivatives that reference
                   the relevant new benchmark rate should not trigger the extended
                   margin period of risk in CRE52.51(2) for SA-CCR and CRE53.24(2) for
                   the IMM.


53.25 If a bank has experienced more than two margin call disputes on a particular
      netting set over the previous two quarters that have lasted longer than the
      applicable margin period of risk (before consideration of this provision), then the
      bank must reflect this history appropriately by using a margin period of risk that
      is at least double the supervisory floor for that netting set for the subsequent two
      quarters.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Are all margin disputes be counted even for those where the disputed
                   amount was very small, or if there is any threshold amount that can be
                   applied here?

                   Every instance of a margin call being disputed must be counted,
                   irrespective of the amount.

       FAQ2        In the case of non-centrally cleared derivatives that are subject to the
                   requirements of MGN20, what margin calls are to be taken into
                   account for the purpose counting the number of disputes according to
                   CRE53.25?

                   In the case of non-centrally cleared derivatives that are subject to the
                   requirements of MGN20, CRE53.25 applies only to variation margin
                   call disputes.


53.26 For re-margining with a periodicity of N-days the margin period of risk should be
      at least equal to the supervisory floor, F, plus the N days minus one day. That is:




53.27 Banks using the internal models method must not capture the effect of a
      reduction of EAD due to any clause in a collateral agreement that requires receipt
      of collateral when counterparty credit quality deteriorates.


Model validation
53.28 It is important that supervisory authorities are able to assure themselves that
      banks using models have counterparty credit risk management systems that are
      conceptually sound and implemented with integrity. Accordingly the supervisory
      authority will specify a number of qualitative criteria that banks would have to
      meet before they are permitted to use a models-based approach. The extent to
      which banks meet the qualitative criteria may influence the level at which
      supervisory authorities will set the multiplication factor referred to in CRE53.14
      (Alpha) above. Only those banks in full compliance with the qualitative criteria will
      be eligible for application of the minimum multiplication factor. The qualitative
      criteria include:

     (1) The bank must conduct a regular programme of backtesting, ie an ex-post
         comparison of the risk measures generated by the model against realised
         risk measures, as well as comparing hypothetical changes based on static
         positions with realised measures. “Risk measures” in this context, refers not
         only to Effective EPE, the risk measure used to derive regulatory capital, but
         also to the other risk measures used in the calculation of Effective EPE such
         as the exposure distribution at a series of future dates, the positive exposure
         distribution at a series of future dates, the market risk factors used to derive
         those exposures and the values of the constituent trades of a portfolio.

     (2) The bank must carry out an initial validation and an on-going periodic review
         of its IMM model and the risk measures generated by it. The validation and
         review must be independent of the model developers.

     (3) The board of directors and senior management should be actively involved
         in the risk control process and must regard credit and counterparty credit
         risk control as an essential aspect of the business to which significant
         resources need to be devoted. In this regard, the daily reports prepared by
         the independent risk control unit must be reviewed by a level of
         management with sufficient seniority and authority to enforce both
         reductions of positions taken by individual traders and reductions in the
         bank’s overall risk exposure.

     (4) The bank’s internal risk measurement exposure model must be closely
         integrated into the day-to-day risk management process of the bank. Its
         output should accordingly be an integral part of the process of planning,
         monitoring and controlling the bank’s counterparty credit risk profile.

     (5) The risk measurement system should be used in conjunction with internal
         trading and exposure limits. In this regard, exposure limits should be related
         to the bank’s risk measurement model in a manner that is consistent over
         time and that is well understood by traders, the credit function and senior
         management.

     (6) Banks should have a routine in place for ensuring compliance with a
         documented set of internal policies, controls and procedures concerning the
         operation of the risk measurement system. The bank’s risk measurement
         system must be well documented, for example, through a risk management
         manual that describes the basic principles of the risk management system
         and that provides an explanation of the empirical techniques used to
         measure counterparty credit risk.


     (7) An independent review of the risk measurement system should be carried
         out regularly in the bank’s own internal auditing process. This review should
         include both the activities of the business trading units and of the
         independent risk control unit. A review of the overall risk management
         process should take place at regular intervals (ideally no less than once a
         year) and should specifically address, at a minimum:

         (a) The adequacy of the documentation of the risk management system
             and process;

         (b) The organisation of the risk control unit;

         (c)   The integration of counterparty credit risk measures into daily risk
               management;

         (d) The approval process for counterparty credit risk models used in the
             calculation of counterparty credit risk used by front office and back
             office personnel;

         (e) The validation of any significant change in the risk measurement
             process;

         (f)   The scope of counterparty credit risks captured by the risk
               measurement model;

         (g) The integrity of the management information system;

         (h) The accuracy and completeness of position data;

         (i)   The verification of the consistency, timeliness and reliability of data
               sources used to run internal models, including the independence of
               such data sources;

         (j)   The accuracy and appropriateness of volatility and correlation
               assumptions;

         (k) The accuracy of valuation and risk transformation calculations; and

         (l)   The verification of the model’s accuracy as described below in CRE53.29
               to CRE53.33.

     (8) The on-going validation of counterparty credit risk models, including
         backtesting, must be reviewed periodically by a level of management with
         sufficient authority to decide the course of action that will be taken to
         address weaknesses in the models.



53.29

        Banks must document the process for initial and on-going validation of their
        IMM model to a level of detail that would enable a third party to recreate the
        analysis. Banks must also document the calculation of the risk measures
        generated by the models to a level of detail that would allow a third party to re-
        create the risk measures. This documentation must set out the frequency with
        which backtesting analysis and any other on-going validation will be conducted,
        how the validation is conducted with respect to dataflows and portfolios and the
        analyses that are used.

53.30 Banks must define criteria with which to assess their EPE models and the models
      that input into the calculation of EPE and have a written policy in place that
      describes the process by which unacceptable performance will be determined
      and remedied.

53.31 Banks must define how representative counterparty portfolios are constructed for
      the purposes of validating an EPE model and its risk measures.

53.32 When validating EPE models and its risk measures that produce forecast
      distributions, validation must assess more than a single statistic of the model
      distribution.

53.33 As part of the initial and on-going validation of an IMM model and its risk
      measures, the following requirements must be met:

        (1) A bank must carry out backtesting using historical data on movements in
            market risk factors prior to supervisory approval. Backtesting must consider a
            number of distinct prediction time horizons out to at least one year, over a
            range of various start (initialisation) dates and covering a wide range of
            market conditions.

        (2) Banks must backtest the performance of their EPE model and the model’s
            relevant risk measures as well as the market risk factor predictions that
            support EPE. For collateralised trades, the prediction time horizons
            considered must include those reflecting typical margin periods of risk
            applied in collateralised/margined trading, and must include long time
            horizons of at least 1 year.

        (3) The pricing models used to calculate counterparty credit risk exposure for a
            given scenario of future shocks to market risk factors must be tested as part
            of the initial and on-going model validation process. These pricing models
            may be different from those used to calculate Market Risk over a short
            horizon. Pricing models for options must account for the nonlinearity of
            option value with respect to market risk factors.


     (4) An EPE model must capture transaction specific information in order to
         aggregate exposures at the level of the netting set. Banks must verify that
         transactions are assigned to the appropriate netting set within the model.

     (5) Static, historical backtesting on representative counterparty portfolios must
         be a part of the validation process. At regular intervals as directed by its
         supervisor, a bank must conduct such backtesting on a number of
         representative counterparty portfolios. The representative portfolios must be
         chosen based on their sensitivity to the material risk factors and correlations
         to which the bank is exposed. In addition, IMM banks need to conduct
         backtesting that is designed to test the key assumptions of the EPE model
         and the relevant risk measures, eg the modelled relationship between tenors
         of the same risk factor, and the modelled relationships between risk factors.

     (6) Significant differences between realised exposures and the forecast
         distribution could indicate a problem with the model or the underlying data
         that the supervisor would require the bank to correct. Under such
         circumstances, supervisors may require additional capital to be held while
         the problem is being solved.

     (7) The performance of EPE models and its risk measures must be subject to
         good backtesting practice. The backtesting programme must be capable of
         identifying poor performance in an EPE model’s risk measures.

     (8) Banks must validate their EPE models and all relevant risk measures out to
         time horizons commensurate with the maturity of trades for which exposure
         is calculated using an internal models method.

     (9) The pricing models used to calculate counterparty exposure must be
         regularly tested against appropriate independent benchmarks as part of the
         on-going model validation process.

     (10) The on-going validation of a bank’s EPE model and the relevant risk
          measures include an assessment of recent performance.

     (11) The frequency with which the parameters of an EPE model are updated
          needs to be assessed as part of the validation process.

     (12) Under the IMM, a measure that is more conservative than the metric used
          to calculate regulatory EAD for every counterparty, may be used in place of
          alpha times Effective EPE with the prior approval of the supervisor. The
          degree of relative conservatism will be assessed upon initial supervisory
          approval and at the regular supervisory reviews of the EPE models. The
          bank must validate the conservatism regularly.




       (13) The on-going assessment of model performance needs to cover all
            counterparties for which the models are used.

       (14) The validation of IMM models must assess whether or not the bank level
            and netting set exposure calculations of EPE are appropriate.


Operational requirements for EPE models
53.34 In order to be eligible to adopt an internal model for estimating EPE arising from
      CCR for regulatory capital purposes, a bank must meet the following operational
      requirements. These include meeting the requirements related to the qualifying
      standards on CCR Management, a use test, stress testing, identification of wrong-
      way risk, and internal controls.


Qualifying standards on CCR Management
53.35 The bank must satisfy its supervisor that, in addition to meeting the operational
      requirements identified in CRE53.36 to CRE53.60 below, it adheres to sound
      practices for CCR management, including those specified in SRP32.14 to SRP32.27.


Use test
53.36 The distribution of exposures generated by the internal model used to calculate
      effective EPE must be closely integrated into the day-to-day CCR management
      process of the bank. For example, the bank could use the peak exposure from the
      distributions for counterparty credit limits or expected positive exposure for its
      internal allocation of capital. The internal model’s output must accordingly play
      an essential role in the credit approval, counterparty credit risk management,
      internal capital allocations, and corporate governance of banks that seek
      approval to apply such models for capital adequacy purposes. Models and
      estimates designed and implemented exclusively to qualify for the internal
      models method are not acceptable.

53.37 A bank must have a credible track record in the use of internal models that
      generate a distribution of exposures to CCR. Thus, the bank must demonstrate
      that it has been using an internal model to calculate the distributions of
      exposures upon which the EPE calculation is based that meets broadly the
      minimum requirements for at least one year prior to supervisory approval.


53.38 Banks employing the internal models method must have an independent control
      unit that is responsible for the design and implementation of the bank’s CCR
      management system, including the initial and on-going validation of the internal
      model. This unit must control input data integrity and produce and analyse daily
      reports on the output of the bank’s risk measurement model, including an
      evaluation of the relationship between measures of CCR risk exposure and credit
      and trading limits. This unit must be independent from business credit and
      trading units; it must be adequately staffed; it must report directly to senior
      management of the bank. The work of this unit should be closely integrated into
      the day-to-day credit risk management process of the bank. Its output should
      accordingly be an integral part of the process of planning, monitoring and
      controlling the bank’s credit and overall risk profile.

53.39 Banks applying the internal models method must have a collateral management
      unit that is responsible for calculating and making margin calls, managing margin
      call disputes and reporting levels of independent amounts, initial margins and
      variation margins accurately on a daily basis. This unit must control the integrity
      of the data used to make margin calls, and ensure that it is consistent and
      reconciled regularly with all relevant sources of data within the bank. This unit
      must also track the extent of reuse of collateral (both cash and non-cash) and the
      rights that the bank gives away to its respective counterparties for the collateral
      that it posts. These internal reports must indicate the categories of collateral
      assets that are reused, and the terms of such reuse including instrument, credit
      quality and maturity. The unit must also track concentration to individual
      collateral asset classes accepted by the banks. Senior management must allocate
      sufficient resources to this unit for its systems to have an appropriate level of
      operational performance, as measured by the timeliness and accuracy of
      outgoing calls and response time to incoming calls. Senior management must
      ensure that this unit is adequately staffed to process calls and disputes in a timely
      manner even under severe market crisis, and to enable the bank to limit its
      number of large disputes caused by trade volumes.

53.40 The bank’s collateral management unit must produce and maintain appropriate
      collateral management information that is reported on a regular basis to senior
      management. Such internal reporting should include information on the type of
      collateral (both cash and non-cash) received and posted, as well as the size, aging
      and cause for margin call disputes. This internal reporting should also reflect
      trends in these figures.



53.41 A bank employing the internal models method must ensure that its cash
      management policies account simultaneously for the liquidity risks of potential
      incoming margin calls in the context of exchanges of variation margin or other
      margin types, such as initial or independent margin, under adverse market
      shocks, potential incoming calls for the return of excess collateral posted by
      counterparties, and calls resulting from a potential downgrade of its own public
       rating. The bank must ensure that the nature and horizon of collateral reuse is
       consistent with its liquidity needs and does not jeopardise its ability to post or
       return collateral in a timely manner.

53.42 The internal model used to generate the distribution of exposures must be part
      of a counterparty risk management framework that includes the identification,
      measurement, management, approval and internal reporting of counterparty risk.
      This Framework must include the measurement of usage of credit lines
      (aggregating counterparty exposures with other credit exposures) and economic
      capital allocation. In addition to EPE (a measure of future exposure), a bank must
      measure and manage current exposures. Where appropriate, the bank must
      measure current exposure gross and net of collateral held. The use test is satisfied
      if a bank uses other counterparty risk measures, such as peak exposure or
      potential future exposure (PFE), based on the distribution of exposures generated
      by the same model to compute EPE.

This section draws heavily on the Counterparty Risk Management
                   Policy Group’s paper, Improving Counterparty Risk Management
                   Practices (June 1999).


53.43 A bank is not required to estimate or report EE daily, but to meet the use test it
      must have the systems capability to estimate EE daily, if necessary, unless it
      demonstrates to its supervisor that its exposures to CCR warrant some less
      frequent calculation. It must choose a time profile of forecasting horizons that
      adequately reflects the time structure of future cash flows and maturity of the
      contracts. For example, a bank may compute EE on a daily basis for the first ten
      days, once a week out to one month, once a month out to eighteen months, once
      a quarter out to five years and beyond five years in a manner that is consistent
      with the materiality and composition of the exposure.

53.44 Exposure must be measured out to the life of all contracts in the netting set (not
      just to the one year horizon), monitored and controlled. The bank must have
      procedures in place to identify and control the risks for counterparties where
      exposure rises beyond the one-year horizon. Moreover, the forecasted increase in
      exposure must be an input into the bank’s internal economic capital model.



Stress testing
53.45 A bank must have in place sound stress testing processes for use in the
      assessment of capital adequacy. These stress measures must be compared
      against the measure of EPE and considered by the bank as part of its internal
      capital adequacy assessment process. Stress testing must also involve identifying
      possible events or future changes in economic conditions that could have
      unfavourable effects on a bank’s credit exposures and assessment of the bank’s
      ability to withstand such changes. Examples of scenarios that could be used are;
      (i) economic or industry downturns, (ii) market-place events, or (iii) decreased
      liquidity conditions.

53.46 Banks must have a comprehensive stress testing program for counterparty credit
      risk. The stress testing program must include the following elements:

       (1) Banks must ensure complete trade capture and exposure aggregation across
           all forms of counterparty credit risk (not just OTC derivatives) at the
           counterparty-specific level in a sufficient time frame to conduct regular
           stress testing.

       (2) For all counterparties, banks should produce, at least monthly, exposure
           stress testing of principal market risk factors (eg interest rates, FX, equities,
           credit spreads, and commodity prices) in order to proactively identify, and
           when necessary, reduce outsized concentrations to specific directional
           sensitivities.

       (3) Banks should apply multifactor stress testing scenarios and assess material
           non-directional risks (ie yield curve exposure, basis risks, etc) at least
           quarterly. Multiple-factor stress tests should, at a minimum, aim to address
           scenarios in which a) severe economic or market events have occurred; b)
           broad market liquidity has decreased significantly; and c) the market impact
           of liquidating positions of a large financial intermediary. These stress tests
           may be part of bank-wide stress testing.

       (4) Stressed market movements have an impact not only on counterparty
           exposures, but also on the credit quality of counterparties. At least quarterly,
           banks should conduct stress testing applying stressed conditions to the joint
           movement of exposures and counterparty creditworthiness.

       (5) Exposure stress testing (including single factor, multifactor and material non-
           directional risks) and joint stressing of exposure and creditworthiness should
           be performed at the counterparty-specific, counterparty group (eg industry
           and region), and aggregate bank-wide CCR levels.



       (6) Stress tests results should be integrated into regular reporting to senior
           management. The analysis should capture the largest counterparty-level
           impacts across the portfolio, material concentrations within segments of the
           portfolio (within the same industry or region), and relevant portfolio and
           counterparty specific trends.

       (7) The severity of factor shocks should be consistent with the purpose of the
           stress test. When evaluating solvency under stress, factor shocks should be
           severe enough to capture historical extreme market environments and/or
           extreme but plausible stressed market conditions. The impact of such shocks
           on capital resources should be evaluated, as well as the impact on capital
           requirements and earnings. For the purpose of day-to-day portfolio
           monitoring, hedging, and management of concentrations, banks should also
           consider scenarios of lesser severity and higher probability.

       (8) Banks should consider reverse stress tests to identify extreme, but plausible,
           scenarios that could result in significant adverse outcomes.

       (9) Senior management must take a lead role in the integration of stress testing
           into the risk management framework and risk culture of the bank and ensure
           that the results are meaningful and proactively used to manage counterparty
           credit risk. At a minimum, the results of stress testing for significant
           exposures should be compared to guidelines that express the bank’s risk
           appetite and elevated for discussion and action when excessive or
           concentrated risks are present.


Wrong-way risk
53.47 Banks must identify exposures that give rise to a greater degree of general
      wrong-way risk. Stress testing and scenario analyses must be designed to identify
      risk factors that are positively correlated with counterparty credit worthiness.
      Such testing needs to address the possibility of severe shocks occurring when
      relationships between risk factors have changed. Banks should monitor general
      wrong way risk by product, by region, by industry, or by other categories that are
      germane to the business. Reports should be provided to senior management and
      the appropriate committee of the Board on a regular basis that communicate
      wrong way risks and the steps that are being taken to manage that risk.



53.48 A bank is exposed to “specific wrong-way risk” if future exposure to a specific
      counterparty is highly correlated with the counterparty’s probability of default.
      For example, a company writing put options on its own stock creates wrong-way
      exposures for the buyer that is specific to the counterparty. A bank must have
      procedures in place to identify, monitor and control cases of specific wrong way

       risk, beginning at the inception of a trade and continuing through the life of the
       trade. To calculate the CCR capital requirement, the instruments for which there
       exists a legal connection between the counterparty and the underlying issuer, and
       for which specific wrong way risk has been identified, are not considered to be in
       the same netting set as other transactions with the counterparty. Furthermore, for
       single-name credit default swaps where there exists a legal connection between
       the counterparty and the underlying issuer, and where specific wrong way risk
       has been identified, EAD in respect of such swap counterparty exposure equals
       the full expected loss in the remaining fair value of the underlying instruments
       assuming the underlying issuer is in liquidation. The use of the full expected loss
       in remaining fair value of the underlying instrument allows the bank to recognise,
       in respect of such swap, the market value that has been lost already and any
       expected recoveries. Accordingly LGD for advanced or foundation IRB banks must
       be set to 100% for such swap transactions. For banks using the Standardised
       Approach, the risk weight to use is that of an unsecured transaction. For equity
       derivatives, bond options, securities financing transactions etc referencing a
       single company where there exists a legal connection between the counterparty
       and the underlying company, and where specific wrong way risk has been
       identified, EAD equals the value of the transaction under the assumption of a
       jump-to-default of the underlying security. Inasmuch this makes re-use of
       possibly existing (market risk) calculations (for incremental risk charge) that
       already contain an LGD assumption, the LGD must be set to 100%.


 Note that the recoveries may also be possible on the underlying
                   instrument beneath such swap. The capital requirements for such
                   underlying exposure are to be calculated without reduction for the
                   swap which introduces wrong way risk. Generally this means that such
                   underlying exposure will receive the risk weight and capital treatment
                   associated with an unsecured transaction (ie assuming such underlying
                   exposure is an unsecured credit exposure).





       FAQ
       FAQ1       Please clarify exactly what needs to be done with respect to credit
                  default swaps (CDSs) with specific wrong-way risk. Can you provide an
                  example?

                  Assume you hold a single name CDS with no wrong-way risk. Then, the
                  EAD of that exposure would be equal to alpha times the effective EPE
                  of the CDS contract, whilst the LGD assigned to the counterparty would
                  be that of the corresponding netting set of the counterparty from
                  whom the CDS was bought. Now assume that this single name CDS
                  has Specific wrong-way risk. First, the CDS is taken out of its netting
                  set. Second, the EAD should be equal to the expected loss on the
                  underlying reference asset, conditional on default of the issuer of the
                  underlying, ie assuming that the reference asset has a PD of 100%. If a
                  non-zero recovery is assumed for the underlying asset, then the LGD
                  for the netting set assigned to the single name CDS exposure in the
                  risk-weighted asset calculation is set to 100%.



Integrity of modelling process
53.49 Other operational requirements focus on the internal controls needed to ensure
      the integrity of model inputs; specifically, the requirements address the
      transaction data, historical market data, frequency of calculation, and valuation
      models used in measuring EPE.

53.50 The internal model must reflect transaction terms and specifications in a timely,
      complete, and conservative fashion. Such terms include, but are not limited to,
      contract notional amounts, maturity, reference assets, collateral thresholds,
      margining arrangements, netting arrangements, etc. The terms and specifications
      must reside in a secure database that is subject to formal and periodic audit. The
      process for recognising netting arrangements must require signoff by legal staff
      to verify the legal enforceability of netting and be input into the database by an
      independent unit. The transmission of transaction terms and specifications data
      to the internal model must also be subject to internal audit and formal
      reconciliation processes must be in place between the internal model and source
      data systems to verify on an ongoing basis that transaction terms and
      specifications are being reflected in EPE correctly or at least conservatively.



53.51 When the Effective EPE model is calibrated using historic market data, the bank
      must employ current market data to compute current exposures and at least
      three years of historical data must be used to estimate parameters of the model.
      Alternatively, market implied data may be used to estimate parameters of the
      model. In all cases, the data must be updated quarterly or more frequently if

      market conditions warrant. To calculate the Effective EPE using a stress
      calibration, the bank must also calibrate Effective EPE using three years of data
      that include a period of stress to the credit default spreads of a bank’s
      counterparties or calibrate Effective EPE using market implied data from a
      suitable period of stress. The following process will be used to assess the
      adequacy of the stress calibration:

      (1) The bank must demonstrate, at least quarterly, that the stress period
          coincides with a period of increased CDS or other credit spreads – such as
          loan or corporate bond spreads – for a representative selection of the bank’s
          counterparties with traded credit spreads. In situations where the bank does
          not have adequate credit spread data for a counterparty, the bank should
          map each counterparty to specific credit spread data based on region,
          internal rating and business types.

      (2) The exposure model for all counterparties must use data, either historic or
          implied, that include the data from the stressed credit period, and must use
          such data in a manner consistent with the method used for the calibration of
          the Effective EPE model to current data.

      (3) To evaluate the effectiveness of its stress calibration for Effective EPE, the
          bank must create several benchmark portfolios that are vulnerable to the
          same main risk factors to which the bank is exposed. The exposure to these
          benchmark portfolios shall be calculated using (a) current positions at
          current market prices, stressed volatilities, stressed correlations and other
          relevant stressed exposure model inputs from the 3-year stress period and
          (b) current positions at end of stress period market prices, stressed
          volatilities, stressed correlations and other relevant stressed exposure model
          inputs from the 3-year stress period. Supervisors may adjust the stress
          calibration if the exposures of these benchmark portfolios deviate
          substantially.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Can the Basel Committee confirm that banks that use market implied
                   data do not need to employ current market data to compute current
                   exposures for either normal or stressed EPE, but can instead rely
                   respectively on market implied and stressed market implied
                   calibrations?

                   This will depend on the specifics of the modelling framework, but
                   current exposure should be based on current market valuations.
                   However, in any case, current exposure has to be based on current
                   market data, be they directly observed or implied by other observable
                   prices which also need to be as of the valuation date.

       FAQ2        Can the Basel Committee confirm that the stressed three year data
                   period will be centred on the credit spread stress point, ie there will be
                   equal history used before and after that point? Where the stress period
                   occurs in the current three year data set, is it correct that a separate
                   stress data set would only be required once the stress point is more
                   than 18 months in the past, ie before that the stress and current period
                   will be the same?

                   There is no explicit requirement that the three-year data period needs
                   to be centred on the credit spread stress period. The determination and
                   review of the stress period should be discussed with your national
                   supervisor.


53.52 For a bank to recognise in its EAD calculations for OTC derivatives the effect of
      collateral other than cash of the same currency as the exposure itself, if it is not
      able to model collateral jointly with the exposure then it must use either haircuts
      that meet the standards of the financial collateral comprehensive method with
      own haircut estimates or the standard supervisory haircuts.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        How is the FX haircut to be applied for mixed currency exposures?

                   The FX haircut should be applied to each element of collateral that is
                   provided in a different currency to the exposure.


53.53 If the internal model includes the effect of collateral on changes in the market
      value of the netting set, the bank must model collateral other than cash of the
      same currency as the exposure itself jointly with the exposure in its EAD
      calculations for securities-financing transactions.

53.54 The EPE model (and modifications made to it) must be subject to an internal
      model validation process. The process must be clearly articulated in banks’
      policies and procedures. The validation process must specify the kind of testing
      needed to ensure model integrity and identify conditions under which
      assumptions are violated and may result in an understatement of EPE. The
      validation process must include a review of the comprehensiveness of the EPE
      model, for example such as whether the EPE model covers all products that have
      a material contribution to counterparty risk exposures.

53.55 The use of an internal model to estimate EPE, and hence the exposure amount or
      EAD, of positions subject to a CCR capital requirement will be conditional upon
      the explicit approval of the bank’s supervisory authority. Home and host country
      supervisory authorities of banks that carry out material trading activities in
      multiple jurisdictions will work co-operatively to ensure an efficient approval
      process.

53.56 In the Basel Framework and in prior documents, the Committee has issued
      guidance regarding the use of internal models to estimate certain parameters of
      risk and determine minimum capital requirements against those risks. Supervisors
      will require that banks seeking to make use of internal models to estimate EPE
      meet similar requirements regarding, for example, the integrity of the risk
      management system, the skills of staff that will rely on such measures in
      operational areas and in control functions, the accuracy of models, and the rigour
      of internal controls over relevant internal processes. As an example, banks
      seeking to make use of an internal model to estimate EPE must demonstrate that
      they meet the Committee’s general criteria for banks seeking to make use of
      internal models to assess market risk exposures, but in the context of assessing
      counterparty credit risk.
 See MAR30.1 to MAR30.4.


53.57 The supervisory review process (SRP) standard of this framework provides general
      background and specific guidance to cover counterparty credit risks that may not
      be fully covered by the Pillar 1 process.




53.58 No particular form of model is required to qualify to make use of an internal
      model. Although this text describes an internal model as a simulation model,

       other forms of models, including analytic models, are acceptable subject to
       supervisory approval and review. Banks that seek recognition for the use of an
       internal model that is not based on simulations must demonstrate to their
       supervisors that the model meets all operational requirements.

53.59 For a bank that qualifies to net transactions, the bank must have internal
      procedures to verify that, prior to including a transaction in a netting set, the
      transaction is covered by a legally enforceable netting contract that meets the
      applicable requirements of the standardised approach to counterparty credit risk (
      CRE52), the credit risk mitigation chapter of the framework (CRE22), or the Cross-
      Product Netting Rules set forth CRE53.61 to CRE53.71 below.

53.60 For a bank that makes use of collateral to mitigate its CCR, the bank must have
      internal procedures to verify that, prior to recognising the effect of collateral in its
      calculations, the collateral meets the appropriate legal certainty standards as set
      out in CRE22.


Cross-product netting rules
53.61 The Cross-Product Netting Rules apply specifically to netting across SFTs, or to
      netting across both SFTs and OTC derivatives, for purposes of regulatory capital
      computation under IMM.

53.62 Banks that receive approval to estimate their exposures to CCR using the internal
      models method may include within a netting set SFTs, or both SFTs and OTC
      derivatives subject to a legally valid form of bilateral netting that satisfies the
      following legal and operational criteria for a Cross-Product Netting Arrangement
      (as defined below). The bank must also have satisfied any prior approval or other
      procedural requirements that its national supervisor determines to implement for
      purposes of recognising a Cross-Product Netting Arrangement.


Legal Criteria


53.63 The bank has executed a written, bilateral netting agreement with the
      counterparty that creates a single legal obligation, covering all included bilateral
      master agreements and transactions (“Cross-Product Netting Arrangement”),
      such that the bank would have either a claim to receive or obligation to pay only
      the net sum of the positive and negative (i) close-out values of any included
      individual master agreements and (ii) mark-to-market values of any included



       individual transactions (the “Cross-Product Net Amount”), in the event a
       counterparty fails to perform due to any of the following: default, bankruptcy,
       liquidation or similar circumstances.

53.64 The bank has written and reasoned legal opinions that conclude with a high
      degree of certainty that, in the event of a legal challenge, relevant courts or
      administrative authorities would find the bank’s exposure under the Cross-
      Product Netting Arrangement to be the Cross-Product Net Amount under the
      laws of all relevant jurisdictions. In reaching this conclusion, legal opinions must
      address the validity and enforceability of the entire Cross-Product Netting
      Arrangement under its terms and the impact of the Cross-Product Netting
      Arrangement on the material provisions of any included bilateral master
      agreement.

       (1) The laws of “all relevant jurisdictions” are: (i) the law of the jurisdiction in
           which the counterparty is chartered and, if the foreign branch of a
           counterparty is involved, then also under the law of the jurisdiction in which
           the branch is located, (ii) the law that governs the individual transactions,
           and (iii) the law that governs any contract or agreement necessary to effect
           the netting.

       (2) A legal opinion must be generally recognised as such by the legal
           community in the bank’s home country or a memorandum of law that
           addresses all relevant issues in a reasoned manner.

53.65 The bank has internal procedures to verify that, prior to including a transaction in
      a netting set, the transaction is covered by legal opinions that meet the above
      criteria.

53.66 The bank undertakes to update legal opinions as necessary to ensure continuing
      enforceability of the Cross-Product Netting Arrangement in light of possible
      changes in relevant law.


53.67 The Cross-Product Netting Arrangement does not include a walkaway clause. A
      walkaway clause is a provision which permits a non-defaulting counterparty to
      make only limited payments, or no payment at all, to the estate of the defaulter,
      even if the defaulter is a net creditor.

53.68 Each included bilateral master agreement and transaction included in the Cross-
      Product Netting Arrangement satisfies applicable legal requirements for
      recognition of credit risk mitigation techniques in CRE22.

53.69 The bank maintains all required documentation in its files.


Operational Criteria

53.70 The supervisory authority is satisfied that the effects of a Cross-Product Netting
      Arrangement are factored into the bank’s measurement of a counterparty’s
      aggregate credit risk exposure and that the bank manages its counterparty credit
      risk on such basis.

53.71 Credit risk to each counterparty is aggregated to arrive at a single legal exposure
      across products covered by the Cross-Product Netting Arrangement. This
      aggregation must be factored into credit limit and economic capital processes.


                                 CRE54
                                 Capital requirements for bank
                                 exposures to central
                                 counterparties
                                 This chapter sets out the calculation of capital
                                 requirements for bank exposures to central
                                 counterparties.


                                 Scope of application
54.1   This chapter applies to exposures to central counterparties arising from over-the-
       counter (OTC) derivatives, exchange-traded derivatives transactions, securities
       financing transactions (SFTs) and long settlement transactions. Exposures arising
       from the settlement of cash transactions (equities, fixed income, spot foreign
       exchange and spot commodities) are not subject to this treatment. The
       settlement of cash transactions remains subject to the treatment described CRE70
       .

For contributions to prepaid default funds covering settlement-risk-
                   only products, the applicable risk weight is 0%.


54.2   When the clearing member-to-client leg of an exchange-traded derivatives
       transaction is conducted under a bilateral agreement, both the client bank and
       the clearing member are to capitalise that transaction as an OTC derivative. This
       treatment also applies to transactions between lower-level clients and higher-
       level clients in a multi-level client structure.


 For this purpose, the treatment in CRE54.12 would also apply.



Central Counterparties
54.3   Regardless of whether a central counterparty (CCP) is classified as a qualifying
       CCP (QCCP), a bank retains the responsibility to ensure that it maintains adequate
       capital for its exposures. Under the supervisory review process standard (SRP), a
       bank should consider whether it might need to hold capital in excess of the
       minimum capital requirements if, for example:

       (1) its dealings with a CCP give rise to more risky exposures;

       (2) where, given the context of that bank's dealings, it is unclear that the CCP
           meets the definition of a QCCP; or



       (3) an external assessment such as an International Monetary Fund Financial
           Sector Assessment Program has found material shortcomings in the CCP or
           the regulation of CCPs, and the CCP and/or the CCP regulator have not since
           publicly addressed the issues identified.

54.4   Where the bank is acting as a clearing member, the bank should assess through
       appropriate scenario analysis and stress testing whether the level of capital held
       against exposures to a CCP adequately addresses the inherent risks of those
       transactions. This assessment will include potential future or contingent
       exposures resulting from future drawings on default fund commitments, and/or
       from secondary commitments to take over or replace offsetting transactions from
       clients of another clearing member in case of this clearing member defaulting or
       becoming insolvent.

54.5   A bank must monitor and report to senior management and the appropriate
       committee of the Board on a regular basis all of its exposures to CCPs, including
       exposures arising from trading through a CCP and exposures arising from CCP
       membership obligations such as default fund contributions.

54.6   Where a bank is clearing derivative, SFT and/or long settlement transactions
       through a QCCP as defined in CRE50, then CRE54.7 to CRE54.40 will apply. In the
       case of non-qualifying CCPs, CRE54.41 and CRE54.42 will apply. Within three
       months of a CCP ceasing to qualify as a QCCP, unless a bank’s national supervisor
       requires otherwise, the trades with a former QCCP may continue to be capitalised
       as though they are with a QCCP. After that time, the bank’s exposures with such a
       central counterparty must be capitalised according to paragraphs CRE54.41 and
       CRE54.42.


Exposures to Qualifying CCPs : trade exposures

Clearing member exposures to CCPs

54.7   Where a bank acts as a clearing member of a CCP for its own purposes, a risk
       weight of 2% must be applied to the bank’s trade exposure to the CCP in respect
       of OTC derivatives, exchange-traded derivative transactions, SFTs and long-
       settlement transactions. Where the clearing member offers clearing services to
       clients, the 2% risk weight also applies to the clearing member’s trade exposure
       to the CCP that arises when the clearing member is obligated to reimburse the
       client for any losses suffered due to changes in the value of its transactions in the
       event that the CCP defaults. The risk weight applied to collateral posted to the
       CCP by the bank must be determined in accordance with paragraphs CRE54.18 to
       CRE54.23.


54.8
       The exposure amount for a bank’s trade exposure is to be calculated in
       accordance with methods set out in the counterparty credit risk chapters of the
       Basel framework (see paragraph CRE51.8), as consistently applied by the bank in
       the ordinary course of its business. In applying these methods:

       (1) Provided that the netting set does not contain illiquid collateral or exotic
           trades and provided there are no disputed trades, the 20-day floor for the
           margin period of risk (MPOR) established for netting sets where the number
           of trades exceeds 5000 does not apply. This floor is set out in CRE52.51(1) of
           the standardised approach for counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR), CRE22.61 of
           comprehensive approach within the standardised approach to credit risk and
           CRE53.24(1) of the internal models method (IMM).

       (2) In all cases, a minimum MPOR of 10 days must be used for the calculation of
           trade exposures to CCPs for OTC derivatives.

       (3) Where CCPs retain variation margin against certain trades (eg where CCPs
           collect and hold variation margin against positions in exchange-traded or
           OTC forwards), and the member collateral is not protected against the
           insolvency of the CCP, the minimum time risk horizon applied to banks’
           trade exposures on those trades must be the lesser of one year and the
           remaining maturity of the transaction, with a floor of 10 business days.


Where the firm’s internal model permission does not specifically cover
                   centrally cleared products, the IMM scope would have to be extended
                   to cover these products (even where the non-centrally cleared versions
                   are included in the permission). Usually, national supervisors have a
                   well defined model approval/change process by which IMM firms can
                   extend the products covered within their IMM scope. The introduction
                   of a centrally cleared version of a product within the existing IMM
                   scope must be considered as part of such a model change process, as
                   opposed to a natural extension.




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                            548/1626
54.9   The methods for calculating counterparty credit risk exposures (see CRE51.8),
       when applied to bilateral trading exposures (ie non-CCP counterparties), require
       banks to calculate exposures for each individual netting set. However, netting
       arrangements for CCPs are not as standardised as those for OTC netting
       agreements in the context of bilateral trading. As a consequence, paragraph
       CRE54.10 below makes certain adjustments to the methods for calculating
       counterparty credit risk exposure to permit netting under certain conditions for
       exposures to CCPs.

54.10 Where settlement is legally enforceable on a net basis in an event of default and
      regardless of whether the counterparty is insolvent or bankrupt, the total
      replacement cost of all contracts relevant to the trade exposure determination
      can be calculated as a net replacement cost if the applicable close-out netting
      sets meet the requirements set out in:

       (1) Paragraphs CRE22.69 and, where applicable, also CRE22.70 in the case of
           repo-style transactions.

       (2) CRE52.7 and CRE52.8 of the SA-CCR in the case of derivative transactions.

       (3) CRE53.61 to CRE53.71 of IMM in the case of cross-product netting.

54.11 To the extent that the rules referenced in CRE54.10 above include the term
      “master agreement” or the phrase “a netting contract with a counterparty or
      other agreement”, this terminology must be read as including any enforceable
      arrangement that provides legally enforceable rights of set-off. If the bank cannot
      demonstrate that netting agreements meet these requirements, each single
      transaction will be regarded as a netting set of its own for the calculation of trade
      exposure.


Clearing member exposures to clients

54.12 The clearing member will always capitalise its exposure (including potential credit
      valuation adjustment, or CVA, risk exposure) to clients as bilateral trades,
      irrespective of whether the clearing member guarantees the trade or acts as an
      intermediary between the client and the CCP. However, to recognise the shorter
      close-out period for cleared client transactions, clearing members can capitalise
      the exposure to their clients applying a margin period of risk of at least five days
      in IMM or SA-CCR. The reduced exposure at default (EAD) should also be used
      for the calculation of both the Advanced and Standardised CVA capital
      requirement.


54.13 If a clearing member collects collateral from a client for client cleared trades and
      this collateral is passed on to the CCP, the clearing member may recognise this
      collateral for both the CCP-clearing member leg and the clearing member-client

       leg of the client cleared trade. Therefore, initial margin posted by clients to their
       clearing member mitigates the exposure the clearing member has against these
       clients. The same treatment applies, in an analogous fashion, to multi-level client
       structures (between a higher-level client and a lower-level client).


       FAQ
       FAQ1        What treatment must a clearing member bank apply to collateral that
                   is collected from a client of the clearing member and posted to a CCP,
                   but that is not held in a bankruptcy-remote manner, where the
                   clearing member is not obligated to reimburse the client for any losses
                   due to changes in the value of its transactions in the event that the
                   CCP defaults?

                   If the clearing member bank is not obligated to reimburse the client for
                   any loss of such posted collateral in the event that the CCP defaults,
                   the clearing member bank is not subject to capital requirements for the
                   posted collateral. If the clearing member bank is obligated to
                   reimburse the client for any loss of posted collateral in the event the
                   CCP defaults, the clearing member bank should compute the capital
                   requirement for the posted collateral held by the CCP as an exposure
                   to the CCP.



Client exposures

54.14 Subject to the two conditions set out in CRE54.15 below being met, the treatment
      set out in CRE54.7 to CRE54.11 (ie the treatment of clearing member exposures
      to CCPs) also applies to the following:

       (1) A bank’s exposure to a clearing member where:

            (a) the bank is a client of the clearing member; and

            (b) the transactions arise as a result of the clearing member acting as a
                financial intermediary (ie the clearing member completes an offsetting
                transaction with a CCP).


      (2) A bank’s exposure to a CCP resulting from a transaction with the CCP where:

           (a) the bank is a client of a clearing member; and

           (b) the clearing member guarantees the performance the bank’s exposure
               to the CCP.

      (3) Exposures of lower level clients to higher level clients in a multi-level client
          structure, provided that for all client levels in-between the two conditions in
          CRE54.15 below are met.

54.15 The two conditions referenced in CRE54.14 above are:

      (1) The offsetting transactions are identified by the CCP as client transactions
          and collateral to support them is held by the CCP and/or the clearing
          member, as applicable, under arrangements that prevent any losses to the
          client due to: (a) the default or insolvency of the clearing member; (b) the
          default or insolvency of the clearing member’s other clients; and (c) the joint
          default or insolvency of the clearing member and any of its other clients.
          Regarding the condition set out in this paragraph:

           (a) Upon the insolvency of the clearing member, there must be no legal
               impediment (other than the need to obtain a court order to which the
               client is entitled) to the transfer of the collateral belonging to clients of
               a defaulting clearing member to the CCP, to one or more other
               surviving clearing members or to the client or the client’s nominee.
               National supervisors should be consulted to determine whether this is
               achieved based on particular facts and such supervisors should consult
               and communicate with other supervisors via the “frequently asked
               questions” process to ensure consistency.

           (b) The client must have conducted a sufficient legal review (and undertake
               such further review as necessary to ensure continuing enforceability)
               and have a well founded basis to conclude that, in the event of legal
               challenge, the relevant courts and administrative authorities would find
               that such arrangements mentioned above would be legal, valid, binding
               and enforceable under the relevant laws of the relevant jurisdiction(s).



       (2) Relevant laws, regulation, rules, contractual, or administrative arrangements
           provide that the offsetting transactions with the defaulted or insolvent
           clearing member are highly likely to continue to be indirectly transacted
           through the CCP, or by the CCP, if the clearing member defaults or becomes
           insolvent. In such circumstances, the client positions and collateral with the
           CCP will be transferred at market value unless the client requests to close out
           the position at market value. Regarding the condition set out in this
           paragraph, if there is a clear precedent for transactions being ported at a

           CCP and industry intent for this practice to continue, then these factors must
           be considered when assessing if trades are highly likely to be ported. The
           fact that CCP documentation does not prohibit client trades from being
           ported is not sufficient to say they are highly likely to be ported.

54.16 Where a client is not protected from losses in the case that the clearing member
      and another client of the clearing member jointly default or become jointly
      insolvent, but all other conditions in the preceding paragraph are met, a risk
      weight of 4% will apply to the client's exposure to the clearing member, or to the
      higher level client, respectively.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       What is the applicable capital treatment for collateral posted by a bank
                  as a client of a clearing member and held at the qualifying CCP, where
                  conditions set out in CRE54.15 and CRE54.16 are not met?

                  Where the collateral is posted by a bank as a client of a clearing
                  member and held at the qualifying CCP not in a bankruptcy remote
                  manner and where it does not meet the conditions set out in CRE54.15
                  and CRE54.16, the bank must apply the risk weight of the clearing
                  member to those collateral exposures.


54.17 Where the bank is a client of the clearing member and the requirements in CRE54.
      14 to CRE54.16 above are not met, the bank will capitalise its exposure (including
      potential CVA risk exposure) to the clearing member as a bilateral trade.


Treatment of posted collateral




54.18 In all cases, any assets or collateral posted must, from the perspective of the bank
      posting such collateral, receive the risk weights that otherwise applies to such
      assets or collateral under the capital adequacy framework, regardless of the fact
      that such assets have been posted as collateral. That is, collateral posted must
      receive the banking book or trading book treatment it would receive if it had not
      been posted to the CCP.

54.19 In addition to the requirements of CRE54.18 above, the posted assets or collateral
      are subject to the counterparty credit risk requirements, regardless of whether
      they are in the banking or trading book. This includes the increase in the
      counterparty credit risk exposure due to the application of haircuts. The
      counterparty credit risk requirements arise where assets or collateral of a clearing
      member or client are posted with a CCP or a clearing member and are not held in
      a bankruptcy-remote manner. In such cases, the bank posting such assets or
      collateral must recognise credit risk based upon the assets or collateral being
      exposed to risk of loss based on the creditworthiness of the entity holding such
      assets or collateral, as described further below.

54.20 Where such collateral is included in the definition of trade exposures (see CRE50)
      and the entity holding the collateral is the CCP, the following risk weights apply
      where the assets or collateral is not held on a bankruptcy-remote basis:

       (1) For banks that are clearing members a risk-weight of 2% applies.

       (2) For banks that are clients of clearing members:

           (a) a 2% risk-weight applies if the conditions established in CRE54.14 and
               CRE54.15 are met; or

           (b) a 4% risk-weight applies if the conditions in CRE54.16 are met.

54.21 Where such collateral is included in the definition of trade exposures (see CRE50),
      there is no capital requirement for counterparty credit risk exposure (ie the
      related risk weight or EAD is equal to zero) if the collateral is: (a) held by a
      custodian; and (b) bankruptcy remote from the CCP. Regarding this paragraph:

       (1) All forms of collateral are included, such as: cash, securities, other pledged
           assets, and excess initial or variation margin, also called overcollateralisation.

       (2) The word “custodian” may include a trustee, agent, pledgee, secured creditor
           or any other person that holds property in a way that does not give such
           person a beneficial interest in such property and will not result in such
           property being subject to legally enforceable claims by such persons
           creditors, or to a court-ordered stay of the return of such property, if such
           person becomes insolvent or bankrupt.


54.22
        The relevant risk-weight of the CCP will apply to assets or collateral posted by a
        bank that do not meet the definition of trade exposures (for example treating the
        exposure as a financial institution under standardised approach or internal
        ratings-based approach to credit risk).

54.23 Regarding the calculation of the exposure, or EAD, where banks use the SA-CCR
      to calculate exposures, collateral posted which is not held in a bankruptcy remote
      manner must be accounted for in the net independent collateral amount term in
      accordance with CRE52.15 to CRE52.19. For banks using IMM models, the alpha
      multiplier must be applied to the exposure on posted collateral.


Default fund exposures
54.24 Where a default fund is shared between products or types of business with
      settlement risk only (eg equities and bonds) and products or types of business
      which give rise to counterparty credit risk ie OTC derivatives, exchange-traded
      derivatives, SFTs or long settlement transactions, all of the default fund
      contributions will receive the risk weight determined according to the formulae
      and methodology set forth below, without apportioning to different classes or
      types of business or products. However, where the default fund contributions
      from clearing members are segregated by product types and only accessible for
      specific product types, the capital requirements for those default fund exposures
      determined according to the formulae and methodology set forth below must be
      calculated for each specific product giving rise to counterparty credit risk. In case
      the CCP’s prefunded own resources are shared among product types, the CCP
      will have to allocate those funds to each of the calculations, in proportion to the
      respective product-specific EAD.

54.25 Whenever a bank is required to capitalise for exposures arising from default fund
      contributions to a qualifying CCP, clearing member banks will apply the following
      approach.

54.26 Clearing member banks will apply a risk weight to their default fund contributions
      determined according to a risk sensitive formula that considers (i) the size and
      quality of a qualifying CCP’s financial resources, (ii) the counterparty credit risk
      exposures of such CCP, and (iii) the application of such financial resources via the
      CCP’s loss bearing waterfall, in the case of one or more clearing member defaults.
      The clearing member bank’s risk sensitive capital requirement for its default fund
      contribution (KCMi) must be calculated using the formulae and methodology set
        forth below. This calculation may be performed by a CCP, bank, supervisor or
        other body with access to the required data, as long as the conditions in CRE54.37
        to CRE54.39 are met.


54.27 The clearing member bank’s risk sensitive capital requirement for its default fund
      contribution (KCMi) is calculated in two steps:

       (1) Calculate the hypothetical capital requirement of the CCP due to its
           counterparty credit risk exposures to all of its clearing members and their
           clients.

       (2) Calculate the capital requirement for the clearing member bank.


Hypothetical capital requirement of the CCP

54.28 The first step in calculating the clearing member bank’s capital requirement for its
      default fund contribution (KCMi) is to calculate the hypothetical capital
       requirement of the CCP (KCCP) due to its counterparty credit risk exposures to all
       of its clearing members and their clients. KCCP is a hypothetical capital
       requirement for a CCP, calculated on a consistent basis for the sole purpose of
       determining the capitalisation of clearing member default fund contributions; it
       does not represent the actual capital requirements for a CCP which may be
       determined by a CCP and its supervisor.

54.29 KCCP is calculated using the following formula, where:

       (1) RW is a risk weight of 20%

       (2) capital ratio is 8%

       (3) CM is the clearing member

       (4) EADi is the exposure amount of the CCP to clearing member i, relating to the
           valuation at the end of the regulatory reporting date before the margin
           called on the final margin call of that day is exchanged. The exposure
           includes both:

           (a) the clearing member’s own transactions and client transactions
               guaranteed by the clearing member; and

           (b) all values of collateral held by the CCP (including the clearing member’s
               prefunded default fund contribution) against the transactions in (a).

       (5) The sum is over all clearing member accounts.


The 20% risk weight is a minimum requirement. As with other parts of
                   the capital adequacy framework, the national supervisor of a bank
                   may increase the risk weight. An increase in such risk weight would be
                   appropriate if, for example, the clearing members in a CCP are not
                   highly rated. Any such increase in risk weight is to be communicated
                   by the affected banks to the person completing this calculation.


54.30 Where clearing members provide client clearing services, and client transactions
      and collateral are held in separate (individual or omnibus) sub-accounts to the
      clearing member’s proprietary business, each such client sub-account should
      enter the sum in CRE54.29 above separately, ie the member EAD in the formula
      above is then the sum of the client sub-account EADs and any house sub-account
      EAD. This will ensure that client collateral cannot be used to offset the CCP’s
      exposures to clearing members’ proprietary activity in the calculation of KCCP. If
       any of these sub-accounts contains both derivatives and SFTs, the EAD of that
       sub-account is the sum of the derivative EAD and the SFT EAD.

54.31 In the case that collateral is held against an account containing both SFTs and
      derivatives, the prefunded initial margin provided by the member or client must
      be allocated to the SFT and derivatives exposures in proportion to the respective
      product specific EADs, calculated according to:

       (1) CRE22.68 to CRE22.72 for SFTs; and

       (2) SA-CCR (see CRE52) for derivatives, without including the effects of collateral.

54.32 If the default fund contributions of the member (DFi) are not split with regard to
       client and house sub-accounts, they must be allocated per sub-account
       according to the respective fraction the initial margin of that sub-account has in
       relation to the total initial margin posted by or for the account of the clearing
       member.

54.33 For derivatives, EADi is calculated as the bilateral trade exposure the CCP has
       against the clearing member using the SA-CCR. In applying the SA-CCR:

       (1) A MPOR of 10 business days must be used to calculate the CCP’s potential
           future exposure to its clearing members on derivatives transactions (the 20
           day floor on the MPOR for netting sets with more than 5000 trades does not
           apply).



       (2) All collateral held by a CCP to which that CCP has a legal claim in the event
           of the default of the member or client, including default fund contributions

            of that member (DFi), is used to offset the CCP’s exposure to that member or
            client, through inclusion in the PFE multiplier in accordance with CRE52.21 to
            CRE52.23.

54.34 For SFTs, EADi is equal to max(EBRMi – IMi – DFi; 0), where:

       (1) EBRMi denotes the exposure value to clearing member i before risk
           mitigation under CRE22.69 to CRE22.73; where, for the purposes of this
           calculation, variation margin that has been exchanged (before the margin
           called on the final margin call of that day) enters into the mark-to-market
           value of the transactions.

       (2) IMi is the initial margin collateral posted by the clearing member with the
           CCP.

       (3) DFi is the prefunded default fund contribution by the clearing member that
           will be applied upon such clearing member’s default, either along with or
           immediately following such member’s initial margin, to reduce the CCP loss.

54.35 As regards the calculation in this first step (ie CRE54.28 to CRE54.34):

       (1) Any haircuts to be applied for SFTs must be the standard supervisory
           haircuts set out in CRE22.44.

       (2) The holding periods for SFT calculations in CRE22.61 to CRE22.64 apply.

       (3) The netting sets that are applicable to regulated clearing members are the
           same as those referred to in CRE54.10 and CRE54.11. For all other clearing
           members, they need to follow the netting rules as laid out by the CCP based
           upon notification of each of its clearing members. The national supervisor
           can demand more granular netting sets than laid out by the CCP.


Capital requirement for each clearing member

54.36 The second step in calculating the clearing member bank's capital requirement
      for its default fund contribution (KCMi) is to apply the following formula, where:

       (1) KCMi is the capital requirement on the default fund contribution of clearing
           member bank i


      (2) DFCMpref is the total prefunded default fund contributions from clearing
          members

      (3) DFCCP is the CCP's prefunded own resources (eg contributed capital, retained
          earnings, etc), which are contributed to the default waterfall, where these are
          junior or pari passu to prefunded member contributions

      (4) DFipref is the prefunded default fund contributions provided by clearing
          member bank i



The formula puts a floor on the default fund exposure risk weight of 2%.


      FAQ
      FAQ1        Is collateral posted as default fund contributions to a qualifying CCP
                  subject to standardised supervisory haircuts in the computation of
                  capital requirements for each clearing member (KCMi)?

                  No. Exposures for collateral posted as default fund contributions to a
                  qualifying CCP are not subject to haircuts in the computation of capital
                  requirements for each clearing member (KCMi) per the formula in
                  CRE54.36. However, haircuts apply for collateral used in the
                  computation of EAD in the formula for KCCP in CRE54.29.



54.37 The CCP, bank, supervisor or other body with access to the required data, must
      make a calculation of KCCP, DFCMpref, and DFCCP in such a way to permit the
      supervisor of the CCP to oversee those calculations, and it must share sufficient
      information of the calculation results to permit each clearing member to calculate
      their capital requirement for the default fund and for the bank supervisor of such
      clearing member to review and confirm such calculations.


54.38 KCCP must be calculated on a quarterly basis at a minimum; although national
      supervisors may require more frequent calculations in case of material changes
      (such as the CCP clearing a new product). The CCP, bank, supervisor or other
      body that did the calculations must make available to the home supervisor of any
       bank clearing member sufficient aggregate information about the composition of
       the CCP’s exposures to clearing members and information provided to the
       clearing member for the purposes of the calculation of KCCP, DFCMpref, and DFCCP.
       Such information must be provided no less frequently than the home bank
       supervisor would require for monitoring the risk of the clearing member that it
       supervises.

54.39 KCCP and KCMi must be recalculated at least quarterly, and should also be
      recalculated when there are material changes to the number or exposure of
      cleared transactions or material changes to the financial resources of the CCP.


Cap with regard to QCCPs
54.40 Where the sum of a bank’s capital requirements for exposures to a QCCP due to
      its trade exposure and default fund contribution is higher than the total capital
      requirement that would be applied to those same exposures if the CCP were for a
      non-qualifying CCP, as outlined in CRE54.41 and CRE54.42 below, the latter total
      capital requirement shall be applied.


Exposures to non-qualifying CCPs
54.41 Banks must apply the standardised approach for credit risk, according to the
      category of the counterparty, to their trade exposure to a non-qualifying CCP.

54.42 Banks must apply a risk weight of 1250% to their default fund contributions to a
      non-qualifying CCP. For the purposes of this paragraph, the default fund
      contributions of such banks will include both the funded and the unfunded
      contributions which are liable to be paid if the CCP so requires. Where there is a
      liability for unfunded contributions (ie unlimited binding commitments), the
      national supervisor should determine in its supervisory review process
      assessments the amount of unfunded commitments to which a 1250% risk weight
      applies.



                                 CRE55
                                 Counterparty credit risk in the
                                 trading book
                                 This chapter describes how to calculate risk-
                                 weighted assets for counterparty credit risk
                                 exposures in the trading book, which is treated
                                 separately from the capital requirements for
                                 market risk.


                                 55.1   Banks must calculate the counterparty credit risk charge for over-the-counter
       (OTC) derivatives, repo-style and other transactions booked in the trading book,
       separate from the capital requirement for market risk. The risk weights to be
       used in this calculation must be consistent with those used for calculating the
       capital requirements in the banking book. Thus, banks using the standardised
       approach in the banking book will use the standardised approach risk weights in
       the trading book and banks using the internal ratings-based (IRB) approach in
       the banking book will use the IRB risk weights in the trading book in a manner
       consistent with the IRB roll-out situation in the banking book as described in
       CRE30.46 to CRE30.53. For counterparties included in portfolios where the IRB
       approach is being used the IRB risk weights will have to be applied.


The treatment for unsettled foreign exchange and securities trades is
                   set forth in CRE70.


55.2   In the trading book, for repo-style transactions, all instruments, which are
       included in the trading book, may be used as eligible collateral. Those
       instruments which fall outside the banking book definition of eligible collateral
       shall be subject to a haircut at the level applicable to non-main index equities
       listed on recognised exchanges (as noted in CRE22.44). However, where banks are
       using the own estimates approach to haircutting they may also apply it in the
       trading book in accordance with CRE22.48 to CRE22.49. Consequently, for
       instruments that count as eligible collateral in the trading book, but not in the
       banking book, the haircuts must be calculated for each individual security. Where
       banks are using a value-at-risk models approach to measuring exposure for
       securities financing transactions, they also may apply this approach in the trading
       book in accordance with CRE22.74 to CRE22.77 and CRE51.

55.3   The calculation of the counterparty credit risk charge for collateralised OTC
       derivative transactions is the same as the rules prescribed for such transactions
       booked in the banking book (see CRE51).

55.4   The calculation of the counterparty charge for repo-style transactions will be
       conducted using the rules in CRE51 spelt out for such transactions booked in the
       banking book. The firm-size adjustment for small or medium-sized entities as set
       out in CRE31.9 shall also be applicable in the trading book.


                                 CRE60
                                 Equity investments in funds
                                 This chapter sets out the approaches that a bank
                                 can use to calculate the risk-weighted assets for
                                 equity investments in funds.


                                 Introduction
60.1   Equity investments in funds that are held in the banking book must be treated in
       a manner consistent with one or more of the following three approaches, which
       vary in their risk sensitivity and conservatism: the “look-through approach” (LTA),
       the “mandate-based approach” (MBA), and the “fall-back approach” (FBA). The
       requirements set out in this chapter (CRE60) apply to banks’ equity investments in
       all types of funds, including off-balance sheet exposures (eg unfunded
       commitments to subscribe to a fund’s future capital calls). Exposures, including
       underlying exposures held by funds, that are required to be deducted under
       CAP30 are excluded from the risk weighting treatment outlined in this chapter (
       CRE60). Illustrative examples of the requirements set out in this chapter are set
       out in CRE99.


The look-through approach
60.2   The LTA requires a bank to risk weight the underlying exposures of a fund as if
       the exposures were held directly by the bank. This is the most granular and risk-
       sensitive approach. It must be used when:

       (1) there is sufficient and frequent information provided to the bank regarding
           the underlying exposures of the fund; and

       (2) such information is verified by an independent third party.

60.3   To satisfy condition (1) above, the frequency of financial reporting of the fund
       must be the same as, or more frequent than, that of the bank’s and the
       granularity of the financial information must be sufficient to calculate the
       corresponding risk weights. To satisfy condition (2) above, there must be
       verification of the underlying exposures by an independent third party, such as
       the depository or the custodian bank or, where applicable, the management
       company.

 An external audit is not required.




60.4   Under the LTA banks must risk weight all underlying exposures of the fund as if
       those exposures were directly held. This includes, for example, any underlying
       exposure arising from the fund’s derivatives activities for situations in which the
       underlying receives a risk weighting treatment under the calculation of minimum
       risk-based capital requirements (RBC 20) and the associated counterparty credit
       risk (CCR) exposure. Instead of determining a credit valuation adjustment (CVA)
       charge associated with the fund’s derivatives exposures in accordance with the
       CVA framework (MAR50), banks must multiply the CCR exposure by a factor of
       1.5 before applying the risk weight associated with the counterparty. See CRE99
       for an example of how to calculate risk-weighted assets using the LTA.


A bank is only required to apply the 1.5 factor for transactions that are
                   within the scope of the CVA framework (see MAR50 for the scope of the
                   CVA framework).


60.5   Banks may rely on third-party calculations for determining the risk weights
       associated with their equity investments in funds (ie the underlying risk weights
       of the exposures of the fund) if they do not have adequate data or information to
       perform the calculations themselves. In such cases, the applicable risk weight
       shall be 1.2 times higher than the one that would be applicable if the exposure
       were held directly by the bank.


For instance, any exposure that is subject to a 20% risk weight under
                   the standardised approach would be weighted at 24% (1.2 * 20%)
                   when the look through is performed by a third party.



The mandate-based approach
60.6   The second approach, the MBA, provides a method for calculating regulatory
       capital that can be used when the conditions for applying the LTA are not met.

60.7   Under the MBA banks may use the information contained in a fund's mandate or
       in the national regulations governing such investment funds. To ensure that all
       underlying risks are taken into account (including CCR) and that the MBA renders
       capital requirements no less than the LTA, the risk-weighted assets for the fund's
       exposures are calculated as the sum of the following three items (see CRE99 for
       an example of how to calculate risk-weighted assets using the MBA):



     (1) Balance sheet exposures (ie the funds' assets) are risk weighted assuming the
         underlying portfolios are invested to the maximum extent allowed under the
         fund's mandate in those assets attracting the highest capital requirements,
         and then progressively in those other assets implying lower capital
         requirements. If more than one risk weight can be applied to a given
         exposure, the maximum risk weight applicable must be used.

     (2) Whenever the underlying risk of a derivative exposure or an off-balance-
         sheet item receives a risk weighting treatment under the risk based capital
         requirements standard (RBC), the notional amount of the derivative position
         or of the off-balance sheet exposure is risk weighted accordingly.

     (3) The CCR associated with the fund's derivative exposures is calculated using
         the standardised approach to counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR, see CRE52).
         SA-CCR calculates the counterparty credit risk exposure of a netting set of
         derivatives by multiplying (i) the sum of the replacement cost and potential
         future exposure; by (ii) an alpha factor set at 1.4. Whenever the replacement
         cost is unknown, the exposure measure for CCR will be calculated in a
         conservative manner by using the sum of the notional amounts of the
         derivatives in the netting set as a proxy for the replacement cost, and the
         multiplier used in the calculation of the potential future exposure will be
         equal to 1. Whenever potential future exposure is unknown, it will be
         calculated as 15% of the sum of the notional values of the derivatives in the
         netting set. The risk weight associated with the counterparty is applied to
         the counterparty credit risk exposure. Instead of determining a CVA charge
         associated with the fund's derivative exposures in accordance with the CVA
         framework (MAR50), banks must multiply the CCR exposure by a factor of
         1.5 before applying the risk weight associated with the counterparty.



 Information used for this purpose is not strictly limited to a fund’s
                   mandate or national regulations governing like funds. It may also be
                   drawn from other disclosures of the fund.

 For instance, for investments in corporate bonds with no ratings
                   restrictions, a risk weight of 150% must be applied.

  If the underlying is unknown, the full notional amount of derivative
                   positions must be used for the calculation.

 If the notional amount of derivatives mentioned in CRE60.7 is
                   unknown, it will be estimated conservatively using the maximum
                   notional amount of derivatives allowed under the mandate.

 For instance, if both the replacement cost and add-on components are
                   unknown, the CCR exposure will be calculated as: 1.4 * (sum of
                   notionals in netting set +0.15*sum of notionals in netting set).

  A bank is only required to apply the 1.5 factor for transactions that are
                   within the scope of the CVA framework.



The fall-back approach
60.8   Where neither the LTA nor the MBA is feasible, banks are required to apply the
       FBA. The FBA applies a 1250% risk weight to the bank’s equity investment in the
       fund.


Treatment of funds that invest in other funds
60.9   When a bank has an investment in a fund (eg Fund A) that itself has an
       investment in another fund (eg Fund B), which the bank identified by using either
       the LTA or the MBA, the risk weight applied to the investment of the first fund (ie
       Fund A’s investment in Fund B) can be determined by using one of the three
       approaches set out above. For all subsequent layers (eg Fund B’s investments in
       Fund C and so forth), the risk weights applied to an investment in another fund
       (Fund C) can be determined by using the LTA under the condition that the LTA
       was also used for determining the risk weight for the investment in the fund at
       the previous layer (Fund B). Otherwise, the FBA must be applied.



Partial use of an approach
60.10 A bank may use a combination of the three approaches when determining the
      capital requirements for an equity investment in an individual fund, provided that
      the conditions set out in CRE60.1 to CRE60.12 are met.


Exclusions to the look-through, mandate-based and the fall-back
approaches
60.11 Equity holdings in entities whose debt obligations qualify for a zero risk weight
      can be excluded from the LTA, MBA and FBA approaches (including those
      publicly sponsored entities where a zero risk weight can be applied), at the
      discretion of the national supervisor. If a national supervisor makes such an
      exclusion, this will be available to all banks.

60.12 To promote specified sectors of the economy, supervisors may exclude from the
      capital requirements equity holdings made under legislated programmes that
      provide significant subsidies or the investment to the bank and involve some
      form of government oversight and restrictions on the equity investments.
      Example of restrictions are limitations on the size and types of businesses in
      which the bank is investing, allowable amounts of ownership interests,
      geographical location and other pertinent factors that limit the potential risk of
      the investment to the bank. Equity holdings made under legislated programmes
      can only be excluded up to an aggregate of 10% of a bank’s total regulatory
      capital.


Leverage adjustment
60.13 Leverage is defined as the ratio of total assets to total equity. National discretion
      may be applied to choose a more conservative leverage metric, if deemed
      appropriate. Leverage is taken into account in the MBA by using the maximum
      financial leverage permitted in the fund’s mandate or in the national regulation
      governing the fund.

60.14 When determining the capital requirement related to its equity investment in a
      fund, a bank must apply a leverage adjustment to the average risk weight of the
      fund, as set out in CRE60.15, subject to a cap of 1250%.



60.15 After calculating the total risk-weighted assets of the fund according to the LTA
      or the MBA, banks will calculate the average risk weight of the fund (Avg
      RWfund) by dividing the total risk-weighted assets by the total assets of the fund.



       Using Avg RWfund and taking into account the leverage of a fund (Lvg), the risk-
       weighted assets for a bank’s equity investment in a fund can be represented as
       follows:




60.16 The effect of the leverage adjustments depends on the underlying riskiness of the
      portfolio (ie the average risk weight) as obtained by applying the standardised
      approach or the internal ratings-based (IRB) approaches for credit risk. The
      formula can therefore be re-written as:




60.17 See CRE99 for an example of how to calculate the leverage adjustment.


Application of the LTA and MBA to banks using the IRB approach
60.18 Equity investments in funds that are held in the banking book must be treated in
      a consistent manner based on CRE60.1 to CRE60.17, as adjusted by CRE60.19 to
      CRE60.20 below.

60.19 Under the LTA:

       (1) Banks using an IRB approach must calculate the IRB risk components (ie
           probability of default of the underlying exposures and, where applicable,
           loss-given-default and exposure at default) associated with the fund’s
           underlying exposures.

       (2) Banks using an IRB approach may use the standardised approach for credit
           risk (CRE20 to CRE22) when applying risk weights to the underlying
           components of funds if they are permitted to do so under the provisions
           relating to the adoption of the IRB approach set out in CRE30 in the case of
           directly held investments. In addition, when an IRB calculation is not feasible
           (eg the bank cannot assign the necessary risk components to the underlying
           exposures in a manner consistent with its own underwriting criteria), the
           methods set out in CRE60.20 below must be used.




       (3) Banks may rely on third-party calculations for determining the risk weights
           associated with their equity investments in funds (ie the underlying risk

           weights of the exposures of the fund) if they do not have adequate data or
           information to perform the calculations themselves. In this case, the third
           party must use the methods set out in CRE60.20 below, with the applicable
           risk weight set 1.2 times higher than the one that would be applicable if the
           exposure were held directly by the bank.

60.20 In cases when the IRB calculation is not feasible (CRE60.19(2) above), a third party
      is performing the calculation of risk weights (CRE60.19(3) above) or when the
      bank is using the MBA the following methods must be used to determine the risk
      weights associated with the fund’s underlying exposures:

       (1) for equity exposures, the simple risk weight method set out in CRE31.31;

       (2) for securitisation exposures, the Securitisation External Ratings-Based
           Approach (SEC-ERBA) set out in CRE42 if this method is implemented by the
           national regulator; the Securitisation Standardised Approach (SEC-SA) set
           out in CRE41 if the SEC-ERBA has not been implemented by the national
           regulator or the bank is not able to use the SEC-ERBA; or a 1250% risk
           weight where the specified requirements for using the SEC-ERBA or SEC-SA
           are not met; and

       (3) the standardised approach (CRE20 to CRE22) for all other exposures.



                                 CRE70
                                 Capital treatment of
                                 unsettled transactions and
                                 failed trades
                                 This chapter sets out the capital requirements
                                 that apply to failed trades and unsettled
                                 securities, commodities, and foreign exchange
                                 transactions.

Overarching principles
70.1   Banks are exposed to the risk associated with unsettled securities, commodities,
       and foreign exchange transactions from trade date. Irrespective of the booking or
       the accounting of the transaction, unsettled transactions must be taken into
       account for regulatory capital requirements purposes.

70.2   Banks are encouraged to develop, implement and improve systems for tracking
       and monitoring the credit risk exposure arising from unsettled transactions and
       failed trades as appropriate so that they can produce management information
       that facilitates timely action. Banks must closely monitor securities, commodities,
       and foreign exchange transactions that have failed, starting the first day they fail.


Delivery-versus-payment transactions

70.3   Transactions settled through a delivery-versus-payment system (DvP), providing
       simultaneous exchanges of securities for cash, expose firms to a risk of loss on
       the difference between the transaction valued at the agreed settlement price and
       the transaction valued at current market price (ie positive current exposure).
       Banks must calculate a capital requirement for such exposures if the payments
       have not yet taken place five business days after the settlement date, see CRE70.9
       below.


For the purpose of this Framework, DvP transactions include payment-
                   versus-payment transactions.



Non-delivery-versus-payment transactions (free deliveries)

70.4   Transactions where cash is paid without receipt of the corresponding receivable
       (securities, foreign currencies, gold, or commodities) or, conversely, deliverables
       were delivered without receipt of the corresponding cash payment (non-DvP, or
       free deliveries) expose firms to a risk of loss on the full amount of cash paid or
       deliverables delivered. Banks that have made the first contractual payment
       /delivery leg must calculate a capital requirement for the exposure if the second
       leg has not been received by the end of the business day. The requirement
       increases if the second leg has not been received within five business days. See
       CRE70.10 to CRE70.12.




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                              571/1626
Scope of requirements
70.5   The capital treatment set out in this chapter is applicable to all transactions on
       securities, foreign exchange instruments, and commodities that give rise to a risk
       of delayed settlement or delivery. This includes transactions through recognised
       clearing houses and central counterparties that are subject to daily mark-to-
       market and payment of daily variation margins and that involve a mismatched
       trade. The treatment does not apply to the instruments that are subject to the
       counterparty credit risk requirements set out in CRE51 (ie over-the-counter
       derivatives, exchange-traded derivatives, long settlement transactions, securities
       financing transactions).

70.6   Where they do not appear on the balance sheet (ie settlement date accounting),
       the unsettled exposure amount will receive a 100% credit conversion factor to
       determine the credit equivalent amount.

70.7   In cases of a system-wide failure of a settlement, clearing system or central
       counterparty, a national supervisor may use its discretion to waive capital
       requirements until the situation is rectified.

70.8   Failure of a counterparty to settle a trade in itself will not be deemed a default for
       purposes of credit risk under the Basel Framework.


Capital requirements for DvP transactions
70.9   For DvP transactions, if the payments have not yet taken place five business days
       after the settlement date, firms must calculate a capital requirement by
       multiplying the positive current exposure of the transaction by the appropriate
       factor, according to the Table 1 below.

                                                                                       Table 1


          Number of business days after the agreed settlement date
                                                           Corresponding risk multiplier
                     

                        From 5 to 15                                   8%

                       From 16 to 30                                   50%

                       From 31 to 45                                   75%

                         46 or more                                   100%





Capital requirements for non-DvP transactions (free deliveries)
70.10 For non-DvP transactions (ie free deliveries), after the first contractual payment
      /delivery leg, the bank that has made the payment will treat its exposure as a loan
      if the second leg has not been received by the end of the business day. This
      means that:

       (1) For counterparties to which the bank applies the standardised approach to
           credit risk, the bank will use the risk weight applicable to the counterparty
           set out in CRE20.

       (2) For counterparties to which the bank applies the internal ratings-based (IRB)
           approach to credit risk, the bank will apply the appropriate IRB formula (set
           out in CRE31) applicable to the counterparty (set out in CRE30). When
           applying this requirement, if the bank has no other banking book exposures
           to the counterparty (that are subject to the IRB approach), the bank may
           assign a probability of default to the counterparty on the basis of its external
           rating. Banks using the Advanced IRB approach may use a 45% loss-given-
           default (LGD) in lieu of estimating LGDs so long as they apply it to all failed
           trade exposures. Alternatively, banks using the IRB approach may opt to
           apply the standardised approach risk weights applicable to the counterparty
           set out in CRE20.

If the dates when two payment legs are made are the same according
                   to the time zones where each payment is made, it is deemed that they
                   are settled on the same day. For example, if a bank in Tokyo transfers
                   Yen on day X (Japan Standard Time) and receives corresponding US
                   Dollar via the Clearing House Interbank Payments System on day X
                   (US Eastern Standard Time), the settlement is deemed to take place on
                   the same value date.


70.11 As an alternative to CRE70.10(1) and CRE70.10(2) above, when exposures are not
      material, banks may choose to apply a uniform 100% risk-weight to these
      exposures, in order to avoid the burden of a full credit assessment.

70.12 If five business days after the second contractual payment/delivery date the
      second leg has not yet effectively taken place, the bank that has made the first
      payment leg will risk weight the full amount of the value transferred plus
      replacement cost, if any, at 1250%. This treatment will apply until the second
      payment/delivery leg is effectively made.


                                 CRE99
                                 Application guidance
                                 This chapter provides guidance on various
                                 aspects of the credit risk standard, including
                                 illustrative examples.


                                Introduction
99.1   The guidance set out in this chapter relates to the chapters of the credit risk
       standard (CRE). This chapter includes the following:

       (1) Illustrative risk weights calculated under the internal ratings-based (IRB)
           approach to credit risk (CRE99.2 to CRE99.3).

       (2) Illustrative examples for recognition of dilution risk when applying the
           Securitisation Internal Ratings-Based Approach (SEC-IRBA) to securitisation
           exposures (CRE99.4 to CRE99.19).

       (3) Illustrative examples of the application of the standardised approach to
           counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR) to sample portfolios (CRE99.20 to CRE99.97
           ).

       (4) Illustrative examples on the effect of margin agreements on the SA-CCR
           formulation (CRE99.98 to CRE99.115)

       (5) Equity investments in funds: illustrative example of the calculation of risk-
           weighted assets (RWA) under the look-through approach (LTA) (CRE99.116
           to CRE99.120).

       (6) Equity investments in funds: illustrative example of the calculation of RWA
           under the mandate-based approach (MBA) (CRE99.121 to CRE99.127).

       (7) Equity investments in funds: illustrative examples of the leverage adjustment
           (CRE99.128 to CRE99.133).


Illustrative risk weights calculated under the IRB approach to credit risk
99.2   Table 1 provides illustrative risk weights calculated for four exposure types under
       the IRB approach to credit risk. Each set of risk weights for unexpected loss (UL)
       was produced using the appropriate risk-weight function of the risk-weight
       functions set out in CRE31. The inputs used to calculate the illustrative risk
       weights include measures of the probability of default (PD), loss-given-default
       (LGD), and an assumed effective maturity (M) of 2.5 years, where applicable.

99.3   A firm-size adjustment applies to exposures made to small or medium-sized
       entity borrowers (defined as corporate exposures where the reported sales for
       the consolidated group of which the firm is a part is less than €50 million).
       Accordingly, the firm size adjustment was made in determining the second set of
       risk weights provided in column two for corporate exposures given that the
       turnover of the firm receiving the exposure is assumed to be €5 million.



     Illustrative IRB risk weights for UL                                                                                          Table 1


                                                                                                             Qualifying Revolving Retail
             Asset class             Corporate Exposures    Residential Mortgages   Other Retail Exposures
                                                                                                                      Exposures

                LGD:                  45%         45%        45%           25%       45%           85%          45%             85%

             Turnover
                                       50           5
           (millions of €):

             Maturity:             2.5 years    2.5 Years

     PD:

     0.03%                          14.44%       11.30%     4.15%         2.30%      4.45%         8.41%       0.98%            1.85%

     0.05%                          19.65%       15.39%     6.23%         3.46%      6.63%        12.52%       1.51%            2.86%

     0.10%                          29.65%       23.30%     10.69%        5.94%     11.16%        21.08%       2.71%            5.12%

     0.25%                          49.47%       39.01%     21.30%       11.83%     21.15%        39.96%       5.76%           10.88%

     0.40%                          62.72%       49.49%     29.94%       16.64%     28.42%        53.69%       8.41%           15.88%

     0.50%                          69.61%       54.91%     35.08%       19.49%     32.36%        61.13%      10.04%           18.97%

     0.75%                          82.78%       65.14%     46.46%       25.81%     40.10%        75.74%      13.80%           26.06%

     1.00%                          92.32%       72.40%     56.40%       31.33%     45.77%        86.46%      17.22%           32.53%

     1.30%                          100.95%      78.77%     67.00%       37.22%     50.80%        95.95%      21.02%           39.70%


     1.50%                 105.59%       82.11%    73.45%    40.80%    53.37%    100.81%   23.40%    44.19%

     2.00%                 114.86%       88.55%    87.94%    48.85%    57.99%    109.53%   28.92%    54.63%

     2.50%                 122.16%       93.43%    100.64%   55.91%    60.90%    115.03%   33.98%    64.18%

     3.00%                 128.44%       97.58%    111.99%   62.22%    62.79%    118.61%   38.66%    73.03%

     4.00%                 139.58%       105.04%   131.63%   73.13%    65.01%    122.80%   47.16%    89.08%

     5.00%                 149.86%       112.27%   148.22%   82.35%    66.42%    125.45%   54.75%    103.41%

     6.00%                 159.61%       119.48%   162.52%   90.29%    67.73%    127.94%   61.61%    116.37%

     10.00%                193.09%       146.51%   204.41%   113.56%   75.54%    142.69%   83.89%    158.47%

     15.00%                221.54%       171.91%   235.72%   130.96%   88.60%    167.36%   103.89%   196.23%

     20.00%                238.23%       188.42%   253.12%   140.62%   100.28%   189.41%   117.99%   222.86%



Illustrative examples for recognition of dilution risk when applying
SEC-IRBA to securitisation exposures
99.4   The following examples are provided to illustrate the recognition of dilution risk
       according to CRE44.12 and CRE44.13. The first example in CRE99.5 to CRE99.8
       assumes a common waterfall for default and dilution losses. The second example
       in CRE99.9 to CRE99.19 assumes a non-common waterfall for default and dilution
       losses.

99.5   Common waterfall for default and dilution losses: in the first example, it is
       assumed that losses resulting from either defaults or dilution within the
       securitised pool will be subject to a common waterfall, ie the loss-allocation
       process does not distinguish between different sources of losses within the pool.

99.6   The pool is characterised as follows. For the sake of simplicity, it is assumed that
       all exposures have the same size, same PD, same LGD and same maturity.

       (1) Pool of €1,000,000 of corporate receivables

       (2) N is 100

       (3) M is 2.5 years

       (4) PDDilution is 0.55%

       (5) LGDDilution is 100%

       (6) PDDefault is 0.95%

       (7) LGDDefault is  45%


 For the sake of simplicity, the possibility described in CRE34.8 to set M
                   Dilution
                            is 1 is not used in this example.



99.7   The capital structure is characterised as follows:

       (1) Tranche A is a senior note of €700,000

       (2) Tranche B is a second-loss guarantee of €250,000

       (3) Tranche C is a purchase discount of €50,000



       (4) Final legal maturity of transaction / all tranches = 2.875 years, ie MT = 2.5
           years


   The rounding of the maturity calculation is shown for example
                    purposes.


99.8   RWA calculation:

       (1) Step 1: calculate KIRB,Dilution and KIRB,Default for the underlying portfolio:

           (a) KIRB,Dilution is 14.24%

           (b) KIRB,Default is  7%

       (2) Step 2: calculate KIRB,Pool is 21.24%



     (3) Step 3: apply the SEC-IRBA to the three tranches

         (a) Pool parameters:

              (i)     N is 100

              (ii) 
                   IRB,Pool
                           is  81.87%

         (b) Tranche parameters:

              (i)     MT is 2.5 years

              (ii) Attachment and detachment points shown in Table 2

                       Attachment and detachment points for each tranche                 Table 2


                                           Attachment point                Detachment point

                       Tranche A                   30%                          100%

                       Tranche B                   5%                            30%

                       Tranche C                   0%                            5%



     (4) Resulting risk-weighted exposure amounts shown in Table 3

          Risk-weighted exposure amounts for each tranche                                Table 3


                                    SEC-IRBA risk weight                       RWA

          Tranche A                       28.78%                             €201,460

          Tranche B                      1056.94%                           €2,642,350

          Tranche C                        1250%                             €625,000




 As described in CRE34.5, when calculating the default risk of exposures
                    with non-immaterial dilution risk “EAD will be calculated as the
                    outstanding amount minus the capital requirement for dilution prior to
                    credit risk mitigation”.




99.9   Non-common waterfall for default and dilution losses: in the second example, it is
       assumed that the securitisation transaction does not have one common waterfall
       for losses due to defaults and dilutions, ie for the determination of the risk of a
       specific tranche it is not only relevant what losses might be realised within the
       pool but also if those losses are resulting from default or a dilution event.

99.10 As the SEC-IRBA assumes that there is one common waterfall, it cannot be
      applied without adjustments. The following example illustrates one possible
      scenario and a possible adjustment specific to this scenario.

99.11 While this example is meant as a guideline, a bank should nevertheless consult
      with its national supervisor as to how the capital calculation should be performed
      (see CRE44.13).

99.12 The pool is characterised as in CRE99.6.

99.13 The capital structure is characterised as follows:

       (1) Tranche A is a senior note of €950,000

       (2) Tranche C is a purchase discount of €50,000

       (3) Tranches A and C will cover both default and dilution losses

       (4) In addition, the structure also contains a second-loss guarantee of €250,000
           (Tranche B) that covers only dilution losses exceeding a threshold of
           €50,000 up to maximum aggregated amount of €300,000, which leads to the
           following two waterfalls:

            (a) Default waterfall

                (i)    Tranche A is a senior note of €950,000

                (ii) Tranche C is a purchase discount of €50,000

            (b) Dilution waterfall

                (i)    Tranche A is a senior note of €700,000

                (ii)   Tranche B is a second-loss guarantee of €250,000

                (iii) Tranche C is a purchase discount of €50,000

       (5) MT of all tranches is 2.5 years.

  For the sake of simplicity, it is assumed that the second loss guarantee
                   is cash-collateralised.

 Subject to the condition that it is not already being used for realised
                   dilution losses.

  Subject to the condition that it is not already being used for realised
                   default losses.


99.14 Tranche C is treated as described in CRE99.7 to CRE99.10.

99.15 Tranche B (second-loss guarantee) is exposed only to dilution risk, but not to
      default risk. Therefore, KIRB, for the purpose of calculating a capital requirement
       for Tranche B, can be limited to KIRB,Dilution. However, as the holder of Tranche B
       cannot be sure that Tranche C will still be available to cover the first dilution
       losses when they are realised – because the credit enhancement might already be
       depleted due to earlier default losses – to ensure a prudent treatment, it cannot
       recognise the purchase discount as credit enhancement for dilution risk. In the
       capital calculation, the bank providing Tranche B should assume that €50,000 of
       the securitised assets have already been defaulted and hence Tranche C is no
       longer available as credit enhancement and the exposure of the underlying assets
       has been reduced to €950,000. When calculating KIRB for Tranche B, the bank can
       assume that KIRB is not affected by the reduced portfolio size.

99.16 RWA calculation for tranche B:

       (1) Step 1: calculate KIRB,Pool.

            KIRB,Pool is KIRB,Dilution is 14.24%



       (2) Step 2: apply the SEC-IRBA.

            (a) Pool parameters:

                 (i)    N is 100

                 (ii) LGDPool is LGDDilution is 100%

            (b) Tranche parameters:

                 (i)    MT is 2.5 years

                 (ii)   Attachment point is 0%

                 (iii) Detachment point is €250,000 / €950,000 is 26.32%

       (3) Resulting risk-weighted exposure amounts for tranche B:

            (a) SEC-IRBA risk weight is 925.47%

            (b) RWA is €2,313,675

99.17 The holder of Tranche A (senior note) will take all default losses not covered by
      the purchase discount and all dilution losses not covered by the purchase
      discount or the second-loss guarantee. A possible treatment for Tranche A would
      be to add KIRB,Default and KIRB,Dilution (as in CRE99.7 to CRE99.10), but not to
       recognise the second-loss guarantee as credit enhancement at all because it is
       covering only dilution risk.

99.18 Although this is a simple approach, it is also fairly conservative. Therefore the
      following alternative for the senior tranche could be considered:

       (1) Calculate the RWA amount for Tranche A under the assumption that it is
           only exposed to losses resulting from defaults. This assumption implies that
           Tranche A is benefiting from a credit enhancement of €50,000.

       (2) Calculate the RWA amounts for Tranche C and (hypothetical) Tranche A*
           under the assumption that they are only exposed to dilution losses. Tranche
           A* should be assumed to absorb losses above €300,000 up to €1,000,000.
           With respect to dilution losses, this approach would recognise that the
           senior tranche investor cannot be sure if the purchase price discount will still
           be available to cover those losses when needed as it might have already
           been used for defaults. Consequently, from the perspective of the senior
           investor, the purchase price discount could only be recognised for the
           calculation of the capital requirement for default or dilution risk but not for
           both.




      (3) Sum up the RWA amounts under CRE99.18(1) and CRE99.18(2) and apply the
          relevant risk weight floor in CRE44.26 or CRE44.29 to determine the final
          RWA amount for the senior note investor.


  In this example, the purchase price discount was recognised in the
                       default risk calculation, but banks could also choose to use it for the
                       dilution risk calculation. It is also assumed that the second-loss dilution
                       guarantee explicitly covers dilution losses above €50,000 up to
                       €300,000. If the guarantee instead covered €250,000 dilution losses
                       after the purchase discount has been depleted (irrespective of whether
                       the purchase discount has been used for dilution or default losses),
                       then the senior note holder should assume that he is exposed to
                       dilution losses from €250,000 up to €1,000,000 (instead of €0 to
                       €50,000 + €300,000 to €1,000,000).


99.19 RWA calculation for tranche A:

      (1) Step 1: calculate RWA for CRE99.18(1).

           (a) Pool parameters:

                 (i)     KIRB,Pool is KIRB,Default is 7%

                 (ii) LGDPool is LGDDefault is 45%

           (b) Tranche parameters:

                 (i)      MT is 2.5 years

                 (ii)     Attachment point is €50,000 / €1,000,000 is 5%

                 (iii) Detachment point is €1,000,000 / €1,000,000 is 100%

           (c)   Resulting risk-weighted exposure amounts:

                 (i)     SEC-IRBA risk weight is 56.58%

                 (ii) RWA is €537,510.



      (2) Step 2: calculate RWA for CRE99.18(2).

          (a) Pool parameters:


                (i)   KIRB,Pool is KIRB,Dilution is 14.24%

                (ii) LGDPool is LGDDilution is 100%

          (b) Tranche parameters:

                (i)   MT is 2.5 years

                (ii) Attachment and detachment points shown in Table 4

                       Attachment and detachment points for each tranche                 Table 4


                                           Attachment point                Detachment point

                       Tranche A*                 30%                           100%

                       Tranche C                  0%                             5%



          (c)   Resulting risk-weighted exposure amounts shown in Table 5

                 Risk-weighted exposure amounts for each tranche                         Table 5


                                       SEC-IRBA risk weight                    RWA

                 Tranche A*                  13.65%                           €95,550

                 Tranche C                    1250%                           €625,000



(3)   Step 3: Sum up the RWA of CRE99.19(1) and CRE99.19(2)

      (a) Final RWA amount for investor in Tranche A = €537,510 + €95,550 +
          €625,000 = €1,258,060

      (b) Implicit risk weight for Tranche A = max (15%, €1,258,060 / €950,000) =
          132.43%

 The correct application of the overall risk weight floor is such that the
                   intermediate results (in this case the risk weight for Tranche A*) are
                   calculated without the floor and the floor is only enforced in the last
                   step (ie Step 3(b)).



Illustrative examples of the application of the SA-CCR to sample
portfolios
99.20 This section (CRE99.20 to CRE99.97) sets out the calculation of exposure at
      default (EAD) for five sample portfolios using SA-CCR. The calculations for the
      sample portfolios assume that intermediate values are not rounded (ie the actual
      results are carried through in sequential order). However, for ease of
      presentation, these intermediate values as well as the final EAD are rounded.

99.21 The EAD for all netting sets in SA-CCR is given by the following formula, where
      alpha is assigned a value of 1.4:




Example 1: Interest rate derivatives (unmargined netting set)

99.22 Netting set 1 consists of three interest rates derivatives: two fixed versus floating
      interest rate swaps and one purchased physically-settled European swaption. The
      table below summarises the relevant contractual terms of the three derivatives.
      All notional amounts and market values in the table are given in USD thousands.



        Trade    Nature      Residual maturity     Base currency    Notional (USD thousands)   
     Pay Leg     Receive Leg     Market value  (USD
                                                                                       thousands)
          #                                                 
                                                           (*)        (*)       

          1      Interest rate swap    10 years      USD         10,000       Fixed     Floating      30
                

          2      Interest rate swap    4 years      USD         10,000      Floating    Fixed        -20
               

          3     European swaption    1 into 10 years    EUR          5,000      Floating    Fixed        50
                      

        (*) For the swaption, the legs are those of the underlying swap




99.23 The netting set is not subject to a margin agreement and there is no exchange of
      collateral (independent amount/initial margin) at inception. For unmargined
      netting sets, the replacement cost is calculated using the following formula,
      where:

       (1) V is a simple algebraic sum of the derivatives’ market values at the reference
           date

       (2) C is the haircut value of the initial margin, which is zero in this example




99.24 Thus, using the market values indicated in the table (expressed in USD thousands):




99.25 Since V-C is positive (ie USD 60,000), the value of the multiplier is 1, as explained
      in CRE52.22.

99.26 The remaining term to be calculated in the calculation EAD is the aggregate add-
      on (AddOnaggregate). All the transactions in the netting set belong to the interest
      rate asset class. The AddOnaggregate for the interest rate asset class can be
      calculated using the seven steps set out in CRE52.57.




99.27 Step 1: Calculate the effective notional for each trade in the netting set. This is
      calculated as the product of the following three terms: (i) the adjusted notional of




       the trade (d); (ii) the supervisory delta adjustment of the trade (δ); and (iii) the
       maturity factor (MF). That is, for each trade i, the effective notional Di is calculated
       as Di = di * MFi * δi.

99.28 For interest rate derivatives, the trade-level adjusted notional (di) is the product
       of the trade notional amount and the supervisory duration (SDi), ie di = notional *
       SDi. The supervisory duration is calculated using the following formula, where:

       (1) Si and Ei are the start and end dates, respectively, of the time period
            referenced by the interest rate derivative (or, where such a derivative
            references the value of another interest rate instrument, the time period
            determined on the basis of the underlying instrument). If the start date has
            occurred (eg an ongoing interest rate swap), Si must be set to zero.

       (2) The calculated value of SDi is floored at 10 business days (which expressed in
            years, using an assumed market convention of 250 business days a year is 10
            /250 years.




99.29 Using the formula for supervisory duration above, the trade-level adjusted
      notional amounts for each of the trades in Example 1 are as follows:

          Trade          Notional           Si        Ei      SDi            Adjusted
            #         (USD thousands)                                    notional, di (USD
                                                                            thousands)

            1              10,000            0        10      7.87             78,694

            2              10,000            0        4       3.63             36,254

            3               5,000            1        11      7.49             37,428



99.30 CRE52.48 sets out the calculation of the maturity factor (MFi) for unmargined
       trades. For trades that have a remaining maturity in excess of one year, which is
       the case for all trades in this example, the formula gives a maturity factor of 1.



99.31 As set out in CRE52.38 to CRE52.41, a supervisory delta is assigned to each trade.
      In particular:

       (1) Trade 1 is long in the primary risk factor (the reference floating rate) and is
           not an option so the supervisory delta is equal to 1.

       (2) Trade 2 is short in the primary risk factor and is not an option; thus, the
           supervisory delta is equal to -1.

       (3) Trade 3 is an option to enter into an interest rate swap that is short in the
           primary risk factor and therefore is treated as a bought put option. As such,
           the supervisory delta is determined by applying the relevant formula in
           CRE52.40, using 50% as the supervisory option volatility and 1 (year) as the
           option exercise date. In particular, assuming that the underlying price (the
           appropriate forward swap rate) is 6% and the strike price (the swaption’s
           fixed rate) is 5%, the supervisory delta is:




99.32 The effective notional for each trade in the netting set (Di) is calculated using the
       formula Di = di * MFi * δi and values for each term noted above. The results of
       applying the formula are as follows:

         Trade      Notional         Adjusted        Maturity      Delta, δi    Effective
           #         (USD           notional, di    Factor, MFi                notional, Di
                   thousands)         (USD,
                                    thousands)                                   (USD,
                                                                               thousands)

           1         10,000            78,694            1            1           78,694

           2         10,000            36,254            1            -1         -36,254

           3          5,000            37,428            1         -0.2694       -10,083



99.33 Step 2: Allocate the trades to hedging sets. In the interest rate asset class the
      hedging sets consist of all the derivatives that reference the same currency. In this
      example, the netting set is comprised of two hedging sets, since the trades refer
      to interest rates denominated in two different currencies (USD and EUR).



99.34 Step 3: Within each hedging set allocate each of the trades to the following three
      maturity buckets: less than one year (bucket 1), between one and five years
      (bucket 2) and more than five years (bucket 3). For this example, within the
      hedging set “USD”, trade 1 falls into the third maturity bucket (more than 5 years)
       and trade 2 falls into the second maturity bucket (between one and five years).
       Trade 3 falls into the third maturity bucket (more than 5 years) of the hedging set
       “EUR”. The results of steps 1 to 3 are summarised in the table below:

           Trade         Effective notional, Di       Hedging          Maturity bucket
             #                                          set
                           (USD, thousands)

             1                  78,694                   USD                   3

             2                  -36,254                  USD                   2

             3                  -10,083                  EUR                   3



99.35 Step 4: Calculate the effective notional of each maturity bucket (DB1, DB2 and DB3)
      within each hedging set (USD and EUR) by adding together all the trade level
      effective notionals within each maturity bucket in the hedging set. In this
      example, there are no maturity buckets within a hedging set with more than one
      trade, and so this case the effective notional of each maturity bucket is simply
      equal to the effective notional of the single trade in each bucket. Specifically:

       (1) For the USD hedging set: DB1 is zero, DB2 is -36,254 (thousand USD) and DB3 is
           78,694 (thousand USD).

       (2) For the EUR hedging set: DB1 and DB2 are zero and DB3 is -10,083 (thousand
           USD).

99.36 Step 5: Calculate the effective notional of the hedging set (ENHS) by using either
       of the two following aggregation formulas (the latter is to be used if the bank
       chooses not to recognise offsets between long and short positions across
       maturity buckets):




99.37 In this example, the first of the two aggregation formulas is used. Therefore, the
      effective notionals for the USD hedging set (ENUSD) and the EUR hedging (ENEUR)
       are, respectively (expressed in USD thousands):



99.38 Step 6: Calculate the hedging set level add-on (AddOnhs) by multiplying the
       effective notional of the hedging set (ENhs) by the prescribed supervisory factor
       (SFhs). The prescribed supervisory factor in the interest rate asset class is set at
       0.5%. Therefore, the add-on for the USD and EUR hedging sets are, respectively
       (expressed in USD thousands):




99.39 Step 7: Calculate the asset class level add-on (AddOnIR) by adding together all of
      the hedging set level add-ons calculated in step 6. Therefore, the add-on for the
      interest rate asset class is (expressed in USD thousands):




99.40 For this netting set the interest rate add-on is also the aggregate add-on because
      there are no derivatives belonging to other asset classes. The EAD for the netting
      set can now be calculated using the formula set out in CRE99.21 (expressed in
      USD thousands):




Example 2 : Credit derivatives (unmargined netting set)

99.41 Netting set 2 consists of three credit derivatives: one long single-name credit
      default swap (CDS) written on Firm A (rated AA), one short single-name CDS
      written on Firm B (rated BBB), and one long CDS index (investment grade). The
      table below summarises the relevant contractual terms of the three derivatives.
      All notional amounts and market values in the table are in USD thousands.



  Trade  Nature reference entity/ index name Rating reference entity Residual maturity Base currency Notional (USD thousands) Position Market value (USD thousands) 
                                                                                                     
               Single-name CDS                                                                        Protection buyer
        1                   Firm A             AA            3 years     USD        10,000                      20
                                                                                        

               Single-name CDS                                                                         Protection seller
        2                   Firm B             BBB           6 years     EUR        10,000                     -40
                                                                                         

                                            Investment grade                                        Protection buyer
        3     CDS index    CDX.IG 5y                         5 years     USD        10,000                      0
                                                                                          



99.42 As in the previous example, the netting set is not subject to a margin agreement
      and there is no exchange of collateral (independent amount/initial margin) at
      inception. For unmargined netting sets, the replacement cost is calculated using
      the following formula, where:

       (1) V is a simple algebraic sum of the derivatives’ market values at the reference
           date

       (2) C is the haircut value of the initial margin, which is zero in this example




99.43 Thus, using the market values indicated in the table (expressed in USD thousands):




99.44 Since in this example V-C is negative (equal to V, ie -20,000), the multiplier will be
      activated (ie it will be less than 1). Before calculating its value, the aggregate add-
      on (AddOnaggretate) needs to be determined.

99.45 All the transactions in the netting set belong to the credit derivatives asset class.
      The AddOnaggretate for the credit derivatives asset class can be calculated using the
      four steps set out in CRE52.61.

99.46 Step 1: Calculate the effective notional for each trade in the netting set. This is
      calculated as the product of the following three terms: (i) the adjusted notional of
      the trade (d); (ii) the supervisory delta adjustment of the trade (δ); and (iii) the
      maturity factor (MF). That is, for each trade i, the effective notional Di is calculated
       as 

99.47 For credit derivatives, like interest rate derivatives, the trade-level adjusted
      notional (di) is the product of the trade notional amount and the supervisory
       duration (SDi), ie di = notional * SDi. The trade-level adjusted notional amounts
       for each of the trades in Example 2 are as follows:

          Trade          Notional (USD thousands)           Si        Ei      SDi            Adjusted notional, di (USD  thousands)

            1              10,000           0         3       2.79            27,858

            2              10,000           0         6       5.18            51,836

            3              10,000           0         5       4.42            44,240



99.48 CRE52.48 sets out the calculation of the maturity factor (MFi) for unmargined
       trades. For trades that have a remaining maturity in excess of one year, which is
       the case for all trades in this example, the formula gives a maturity factor of 1.

99.49 As set out in CRE52.38 to CRE52.41, a supervisory delta is assigned to each trade.
      In particular:

       (1) Trade 1 and Trade 3 are long in the primary risk factors (CDS spread) and are
           not options so the supervisory delta is equal to 1 for each trade.

       (2) Trade 2 is short in the primary risk factor and is not an option; thus, the
           supervisory delta is equal to -1.

99.50 The effective notional for each trade in the netting set (Di) is calculated using the
       formula Di = di * MFi * δi and values for each term noted above. The results of
       applying the formula are as follows:

         Trade   
Notional (USD thousands)
Adjusted notional, di
(USD, thousands)
Maturity Factor, MFi
Delta, δi
Effective notional, Di
(USD, thousands)
 
                                                                                

           1          10,000           27,858             1            1           27,858

           2          10,000           51,836             1            -1         -51,836

           3          10,000           44,240             1            1           44,240



99.51 Step 2: Calculate the combined effective notional for all derivatives that reference
      the same entity. The combined effective notional of the entity (ENentity) is
       calculated by adding together the trade level effective notionals calculated in
       step 1 that reference that entity. However, since all the derivatives refer to
       different entities (single names/indices), the effective notional of the entity is
       simply equal to the trade level effective notional (Di) for each trade.


99.52 Step 3: Calculate the add-on for each entity (AddOnentity) by multiplying the
       entity level effective notional in step 2 by the supervisory factor that is specified
       for that entity (SFentity). The supervisory factors are set out in table 2 in CRE52.72.
       A supervisory factor is assigned to each single-name entity based on the rating of
       the reference entity (0.38% for AA-rated firms and 0.54% for BBB-rated firms). For
       CDS indices, the SF is assigned according to whether the index is investment or
       speculative grade; in this example, its value is 0.38% since the index is investment
       grade. Thus, the entity level add-ons are the following (USD thousands):

 

99.53 Step 4: Calculate the asset class level add-on (AddOnCredit) by using the formula
      that follows, where:

       (1) The summations are across all entities referenced by the derivatives.

       (2) AddOnentity is the add-on amount calculated in step 3 for each entity
           referenced by the derivatives.

       (3) ρentity is the supervisory prescribed correlation factor corresponding to the
           entity. As set out in table 2 in CRE52.72, the correlation factor is 50% for
           single entities (Firm A and Firm B) and 80% for indexes (CDX.IG).




99.54 The following table shows a simple way to calculate of the systematic and
      idiosyncratic components in the formula:




 

99.55 According to the calculations in the table, the systematic component is 2,253,
      while the idiosyncratic component is 77,344. Thus, the add-on for the credit asset
      class is calculated as follows:




99.56 For this netting set the credit add-on (AddOnCredit) is also the aggregate add-on
       because there are no derivatives belonging to other asset classes.

99.57 The value of the multiplier can now be calculated as follows, using the formula
      set out in CRE52.23:




99.58 Finally, aggregating the replacement cost and the potential future exposure (PFE)
      component and multiplying the result by the alpha factor of 1.4, the EAD is as
      follows (USD thousands):




Example 3 : Commodity derivatives (unmargined netting set)

99.59 Netting set 3 consists of three commodity forward contracts. The table below
      summarises the relevant contractual terms of the three derivatives. All notional
      amounts and market values in the table are in USD thousands.




    

99.60 As in the previous two examples, the netting set is not subject to a margin
      agreement and there is no exchange of collateral (independent amount/initial
      margin) at inception. Thus, the replacement cost is given by:




99.61 Since V-C is positive (ie USD 20,000), the value of the multiplier is 1, as explained
      in CRE52.22.

99.62 All the transactions in the netting set belong to the commodities derivatives asset
      class. The AddOnaggretate for the commodities derivatives asset class can be
      calculated using the six steps set out in CRE52.70.

99.63 Step 1: Calculate the effective notional for each trade in the netting set. This is
      calculated as the product of the following three terms: (i) the adjusted notional of
      the trade (d); (ii) the supervisory delta adjustment of the trade (δ); and (iii) the
      maturity factor (MF). That is, for each trade i, the effective notional Di is calculated
       as 

99.64 For commodity derivatives, the adjusted notional is defined as the product of the
      current price of one unit of the commodity (eg barrel of oil) and the number of
      units referenced by the derivative. In this example, for the sake of simplicity, it is
      assumed that the adjusted notional (di) is equal to the notional value.

99.65 CRE52.48 sets out the calculation of the maturity factor (MFi) for unmargined
       trades. For trades that have a remaining maturity in excess of one year (trades 2
       and 3 in this example), the formula gives a maturity factor of 1. For trade 1 the
       formula gives the following maturity factor:




 99.66 As set out in CRE52.38 to CRE52.41, a supervisory delta is assigned to each trade.
      In particular:

       (1) Trade 1 and Trade 3 are long in the primary risk factors (WTI Crude Oil and
           Silver respectively) and are not options so the supervisory delta is equal to 1
           for each trade.

       (2) Trade 2 is short in the primary risk factor (Brent Crude Oil) and is not an
           option; thus, the supervisory delta is equal to -1.

  

99.67 Step 2: Allocate the trades in commodities asset class to hedging sets. In the
      commodities asset class there are four hedging sets consisting of derivatives that
      reference: energy (trades 1 and 2 in this example), metals (trade 3 in this
      example), agriculture and other commodities.




                Hedging set                        Commodity type           Trades


                    Energy                            Crude oil             1 and 2

                                                     Natural gas             None

                                                        Coal                 None

                                                      Electricity            None

                    Metals                              Silver                  3

                                                        Gold                 None

                                                          …                     …

                  Agriculture                             …                     …

                                                          …                     …

                    Other                                 …                     …



          Trade           Effective notional, Di        Hedging set   Commodity type
            #
                             (USD, thousands)

            1                     8,660                    Energy        Crude oil

            2                    -20,000                   Energy        Crude oil

            3                     10,000                   Metals          Silver



99.68 Step 3: Calculate the combined effective notional for all derivatives with each
      hedging set that reference the same commodity type. The combined effective
      notional of the commodity type (ENComType) is calculated by adding together the
      trade level effective notionals calculated in step 1 that reference that commodity
      type. For purposes of this calculation, the bank can ignore the basis difference
      between the WTI and Brent forward contracts since they belong to the same
      commodity type, “Crude Oil” (unless the national supervisor requires the bank to
      use a more refined definition of commodity types). This step gives the following:

   




99.69 Step 4: Calculate the add-on for each commodity type (AddOnComType) within
       each hedging set by multiplying the combined effective notional for that
       commodity calculated in step 3 by the supervisory factor that is specified for that
       commodity type (SFComType). The supervisory factors are set out in table 2 in
       CRE52.72 and are set at 40% for electricity derivatives and 18% for derivatives
       that reference all other types of commodities. Therefore:


99.70 Step 5: Calculate the add-on for each of the four commodity hedging sets (AddOn
      HS
         ) by using the formula that follows. In the formula:

       (1) The summations are across all commodity types within the hedging set.

       (2) AddOnComType is the add-on amount calculated in step 4 for each
           commodity type.

       (3) ρComType is the supervisory prescribed correlation factor corresponding to the
           commodity type. As set out in table 2 in CRE52.72, the correlation factor is set at
           40% for all commodity types.




99.71 In this example, however, there is only one commodity type within the “Energy”
      hedging set (ie Crude Oil). All other commodity types within the energy hedging
      set (eg coal, natural gas etc) have a zero add-on. Therefore, the add-on for the
      energy hedging set is calculated as follows:




99.72 The calculation above shows that, when there is only one commodity type within
      a hedging set, the hedging-set add-on is equal (in absolute value) to the
      commodity-type add-on.

99.73 Similarly, “Silver” is the only commodity type in the “Metals” hedging set, and so
      the add-on for the metals hedging set is:




99.74 Step 6: Calculate the asset class level add-on by adding together
      all of the hedging set level add-ons calculated in step 5:




99.75 For this netting set the commodity add-on (AddOnCommodity) is also the aggregate
      add-on  because there are no derivatives belonging to other asset
      classes.

99.76 Finally, aggregating the replacement cost and the PFE component and
      multiplying the result by the alpha factor of 1.4, the EAD is as follows (USD
      thousands):




Example 4 : Interest rate and credit derivatives (unmargined netting set)

99.77 Netting set 4 consists of the combined trades of Examples 1 and 2. There is no
      margin agreement and no collateral. The replacement cost of the combined
      netting set is:




99.78 The aggregate add-on for the combined netting set is the sum of add-ons for
      each asset class. In this case, there are two asset classes, interest rates and credit,
      and the add-ons for these asset classes have been copied from Examples 1 and 2:




99.79 Because V-C is positive, the multiplier is equal to 1. Finally, the EAD can be
      calculated as:




Example 5 : Interest rate and commodities derivatives (margined netting set)

99.80 Netting set 5 consists of the combined trades of Examples 1 and 3. However,
      instead of being unmargined (as assumed in those examples), the trades are
      subject to a margin agreement with the following specifications:




 Margin frequency
Threshold, TH
Minimum Transfer Amount, MTA
(USD thousands)
ndependent Amount, IA
(USD thousands)
Total net collateral held by bank
(USD thousands)
  


99.81 The above table depicts a situation in which the bank received from the
      counterparty a net independent amount of 150 (taking into account the net
      amount of initial margin posted by the counterparty and any unsegregated initial
      margin posted by the bank). The total net collateral (after the application of
      haircuts) currently held by the bank is 200, which includes 50 for variation margin
      received and 150 for the net independent amount.

99.82 First, we determine the replacement cost. The net collateral currently held is 200
      and the net independent collateral amount (NICA) is equal to the independent
      amount (that is, 150). The current market value of the trades in the netting set (V)
      is 80, it is calculated as the sum of the market value of the trades. The replacement cost for margined netting sets is
      calculated using the formula set out in CRE52.18. Using this formula the
      replacement cost for the netting set in this example is:




99.83 Second, it is necessary to recalculate the interest rate and commodity add-ons,
      based on the value of the maturity factor for margined transactions, which
      depends on the margin period of risk. For daily re-margining, the margin period
      of risk (MPOR) would be 10 days. In accordance with CRE52.50, for netting sets
      that are not subject daily margin agreements the MPOR is the sum of nine
      business days plus the re-margining period (which is five business days in this
      example). Thus the MPOR is 14 (= 9 + 5) in this example.

99.84 The re-scaled maturity factor for the trades in the netting set is calculated using
      the formula set out in CRE52.52. Using the MPOR calculated above, the maturity
      factor for all trades in the netting set in this example it is calculated as follows (a
      market convention of 250 business days in the financial year is used):



99.85

        For the interest rate add-on, the effective notional for each trade (Di = di * MFi *
        δi) calculated in CRE99.32 must be recalculated using the maturity factor for the
        margined netting set calculated above. That is:

    


99.86 Next, the effective notional of each of the three maturity buckets within each
      hedging set must now be calculated. However, as set out in CRE99.35, given that
      in this example there are no maturity buckets within a hedging set with more
      than a single trade, the effective maturity of each maturity bucket is simply equal
      to the effective notional of the single trade in each bucket. Specifically:

        (1) For the USD hedging set: DB1 is zero, DB2 is -12,869 (thousand USD) and DB3 is
            27,934 (thousand USD).

        (2) For the EUR hedging set: DB1 and DB2 are zero and DB3 is -3,579 (thousand
            USD).

99.87 Next, the effective notional of each of the two hedging sets (USD and EUR) must
      be recalculated using formula set out in CRE99.37 and the updated values of the
      effective notionals of each maturity bucket. The calculation is as follows:



99.88 Next, the hedging set level add-ons (AddOnhs) must be recalculated by
       multiplying the recalculated effective notionals of each hedging set (ENhs) by the
       prescribed supervisory factor of the hedging set (SFhs). As set out in CRE99.35,

       the prescribed supervisory factor in this case is 0.5%. Therefore, the add-on for
       the USD and EUR hedging sets are, respectively (expressed in USD thousands):




99.89 Finally, the interest rate asset class level add-on (AddOnIR) can be recalculated by
      adding together the USD and EUR hedging set level add-ons as follows
      (expressed in USD thousands):




99.90 The add-on for the commodity asset class must also be recalculated using the
      maturity factor for the margined netting. The effective notional for each trade 

99.91 The combined effective notional for all derivatives with each hedging set that
      reference the same commodity type (ENComType) must be recalculated by adding
       together the trade level effective notionals above for each commodity type. This
       gives the following:

   
99.92
        The add-on for each commodity type (AddOnCrudeOil and AddOnSilver) within
        each hedging set calculated in CRE99.69 must now be recalculated by multiplying
        the recalculated combined effective notional for that commodity by the relevant
        supervisory factor (ie 18%). Therefore:

   

99.93 Next, recalculate the add-on for energy and metals hedging sets using the
      recalculated add-ons for each commodity type above. As noted in CRE99.72,
      given that there is only one commodity type with each hedging set, the hedging
      set level add on is simply equal to the absolute value of the commodity type add-
      on. That is:




99.94 Finally, calculate the commodity asset class level add-on (AddOnCommodity) by
      adding together the hedging set level add-ons:




99.95 The aggregate netting set level add-on can now be calculated. As set out in
      CRE52.25, it is calculated as the sum of the asset class level add-ons. That is for
      this example:




99.96 As can be seen from CRE99.82, the value of V-C is negative (ie -120) and so the
      multiplier will be less than 1. The multiplier is calculated using the formula set out
      in CRE52.23, which for this example gives:




99.97 Finally, aggregating the replacement cost and the PFE component and
      multiplying the result by the alpha factor of 1.4, the EAD is as follows (USD
      thousands):




Effect of standard margin agreements on the calculation of
replacement cost with SA-CCR
99.98 In this section (CRE99.98 to CRE99.115), five examples are used to illustrate the
      operation of the SA-CCR in the context of standard margin agreements. In
      particular, they relate to the formulation of replacement cost for margined trades,
      as set out in CRE52.18:




Example 1

99.99 The bank currently has met all past variation margin (VM) calls so that the value
      of trades with its counterparty (€80 million) is offset by cumulative VM in the
      form of cash collateral received. There is a small “Minimum Transfer Amount”
      (MTA) of €1 million and a €0 ”Threshold” (TH). Furthermore, an “Independent
      Amount” of €10 million is agreed in favour of the bank and none in favour of its
      counterparty (ie the NICA is €10 million. This leads to a credit support amount of
      €90 million, which is assumed to have been fully received as of the reporting date.

99.100 In this example, the three terms in the replacement formula are:

       (1) negative €10 million.

       (2)  negative €9 million.

       (3) The third term in the replacement cost formula is always zero, which ensures
           that replacement cost is not negative.

99.101 The highest of the three terms (-€10 million, -€9 million, 0) is zero, so the
      replacement cost is zero. This is due to the large amount of collateral posted by
      the bank’s counterparty.


Example 2



99.102 The counterparty has met all VM calls but the bank has some residual exposure
      due to the MTA of €1 million in its master agreement, and has a €0 TH. The value
      of the bank’s trades with the counterparty is €80 million and the bank holds €79.5
      million in VM in the form of cash collateral. In addition, the bank holds €10
      million in independent collateral (here being an initial margin independent of VM,
      the latter of which is driven by mark-to-market (MTM) changes) from the

       counterparty. The counterparty holds €10 million in independent collateral from
       the bank, which is held by the counterparty in a non-segregated manner. The
       NICA is therefore €0 (= €10 million independent collateral held less €10 million
       independent collateral posted).

99.103 In this example, the three terms in the replacement formula are:

       (1) €0.5 million.

       (2) €1 million.

       (3) The third term is zero.

99.104 The replacement cost is the highest of the three terms (€0.5 million, €1 million, 0)
      which is €1 million. This represents the largest exposure before collateral must be
      exchanged.


Bank as a clearing member

99.105 The case of central clearing can be viewed from a number of perspectives. One
      example in which the replacement cost formula for margined trades can be
      applied is when the bank is a clearing member and is calculating replacement
      cost for its own trades with a central counterparty (CCP). In this case, the MTA
      and TH are generally zero. VM is usually exchanged at least daily and the
      independent collateral amount (ICA) in the form of a performance bond or initial
      margin is held by the CCP.


Example 3

99.106 The bank, in its capacity as clearing member of a CCP, has posted VM to the CCP
      in an amount equal to the value of the trades it has with the CCP. The bank has
      posted cash as initial margin and the CCP holds the initial margin in a bankruptcy
      remote fashion. Assume that the value of trades with the CCP are negative €50
      million, the bank has posted €50 million in VM and €10 million in initial margin
      (IM) to the CCP.



99.107 Given that the IM is held by the CCP in a bankruptcy-remote fashion, CRE52.17
      permits this amount to be excluded in the calculation of NICA. Therefore, the
       NICA is €0 because the bankruptcy IM posted to the CCP can be exclude and the
       bank has not received any IM from the CCP. The value of C is calculated as the
       value of NICA plus any VM received less any VM posted. The value of C is thus
       negative €50 million 

99.108 In this example, the three terms in the replacement cost formula are:

       (1) €0. That is, the negative value of the
           trades has been fully offset by the VM posted by the bank.

       (2)€0.

       (3) The third term is zero.

99.109 The replacement cost is therefore €0.


Example 4

99.110 Example 4 is the same as the Example 3, except that the IM posted to the CCP is
      not bankruptcy-remote. As a consequence, the €10 million of IM must be
      included in the calculation of NICA. Thus, NICA is negative €10 million (= ICA
      received of €0 minus unsegregated ICA posted of €10 million). Also, the value of
      C is negative €60 million 

99.111 In this example, the three terms in the replacement formula are:

       (1) €10 million. That is, the negative
           value of the trades is more than fully offset by collateral posted by the bank.

       (2)  €10 million.

       (3) The third term is zero.

99.112 The replacement cost is therefore €10 million. This represents the IM posted to
      the CCP which risks being lost upon default and bankruptcy of the CCP.


Example 5 : Maintenance Margin Agreement


99.113 Some margin agreements specify that a counterparty (in this case, a bank) must
      maintain a level of collateral that is a fixed percentage of the MTM of the



       transactions in a netting set. For this type of margining agreement, ICA is the
       amount of collateral that the counterparty must maintain above the net MTM of
       the transactions.

99.114For example, suppose the agreement states that a counterparty must maintain a
      collateral balance of at least 140% of the MTM of its transactions and that the
      MTM of the derivatives transactions is €50 in the bank’s favour. ICA in this case is
      €20. Further, suppose there is no TH, no MTA, the bank has
      posted no collateral and the counterparty has posted €80 in cash collateral. In
      this example, the three terms of the replacement cost formula are:

       (1)-€30.

       (2)  -€20.

       (3) The third term is zero.

99.115 Thus, the replacement cost is zero in this example.


Equity investments in funds: calculation of risk-weighted assets using
the look-through approach
99.116 Consider a fund that replicates an equity index. Moreover, assume the following:

       (1) The bank uses the Standardised Approach for credit risk when calculating its
           capital requirements for credit risk and for determining counterparty credit
           risk exposures it uses the SA-CCR.

       (2) The bank owns 20% of the shares of the fund.

       (3) The fund holds forward contracts on listed equities that are cleared through
           a qualifying CCP (with a notional amount of USD 100); and


       (4) The fund presents the following balance sheet:

                                                    Assets

            Cash                                                              USD 20

            Government bonds (AAA-rated)                                      USD 30

            VM receivable (ie collateral posted by the bank to the CCP in  respect of the forward contracts)    USD 50
            

                                                  Liabilities

            Notes payable                                                     USD 5

                                                    Equity

            Shares, retained earnings and other reserves                      USD 95



99.117 The funds exposures will be risk weighted as follows:

       (1) The RWA for the cash (RWAcash) are calculated as the exposure of USD 20
           multiplied by the applicable standardised approach (SA) risk weight of 0%.
           Thus, RWAcash = USD 0.

       (2) The RWA for the government bonds (RWAbonds) are calculated as the
           exposure of USD 30 multiplied by the applicable SA risk weight of 0%. Thus,
           RWAbonds = USD 0.

       (3) The RWA for the exposures to the listed equities underlying the forward
           contracts (RWAunderlying) are calculated by multiplying the following three
           amounts: (1) the SA credit conversion factor of 100% that is applicable to
           forward purchases; (2) the exposure to the notional of USD 100; and (3) the
           applicable risk weight for listed equities under the SA which is 100%. Thus,
           RWAunderlying is USD 100.


       (4) The forward purchase equities expose the bank to counterparty credit risk in
           respect of the market value of the forwards and the collateral posted that is
           not held by the CCP on a bankruptcy remote basis. For the sake of simplicity,
           this example assumes the application of SA-CCR results in an exposure value
           of USD 56. The RWA for counterparty credit risk (RWACCR) are determined by
           multiplying the exposure amount by the relevant risk weight for trade
           exposures to CCPs, which 2% in this case (see CRE54 for the capital




           requirements for bank exposures to CCPs). Thus, RWACCR isUSD 1.12. (Note: There is no credit valuation adjustment, or CVA, charge
           assessed since the forward contracts are cleared through a CCP.)

99.118 The total RWA of the fund are therefore USD 101.12 = (0 + 0 +100 + 1.12).

99.119 The leverage of a fund under the LTA is calculated as the ratio of the fund’s total
      assets to its total equity, which in this examples is 100/95.

99.120 Therefore, the RWA for the bank’s equity investment in the fund is calculated as
      the product of the average risk weight of the fund, the fund’s leverage and the
      size of the bank’s equity investment. That is:




Calculation of risk-weighted assets using the MBA
99.121 Consider a fund with assets of USD 100, where it is stated in the mandate that the
      fund replicates an equity index. In addition to being permitted to invest its assets
      in either cash or equities, the mandate allows the fund to take long positions in
      equity index futures up to a maximum nominal amount equivalent to the size of
      the fund’s balance sheet (USD 100). This means that the total on balance sheet
      and off balance sheet exposures of the fund can reach USD 200. Consider also
      that a maximum financial leverage (fund assets/fund equity) of 1.1 applies
      according to the mandate. The bank holds 20% of the shares of the fund, which
      represents an investment of USD 18.18.

99.122First, the on-balance sheet exposures of USD 100 will be risk weighted according
      to the risk weights applied to equity exposures (risk weight =100%), ie RWAon-BS
       is USD 100.



99.123 Second, we assume that the fund has exhausted its limit on derivative positions,
      ie USD 100 notional amount. The RWA for the maximum notional amount of
       underlying the derivatives positions calculated by multiplying the following three
       amounts: (1) the SA credit conversion factor of 100% that is applicable to forward
       purchases; (2) the maximum exposure to the notional of USD 100; and (3) the
       applicable risk weight for equities under the SA which is 100%. Thus, RWA
       underlying
                 is USD 100.

99.124 Third, we would calculate the counterparty credit risk associated with the
      derivative contract. As set out in CRE60.7(3):

       (1) If we do not know the replacement cost related to the futures contract, we
           would approximate it by the maximum notional amount, ie USD 100.

       (2) If we do not know the aggregate add-on for potential future exposure, we
           would approximate this by 15% of the maximum notional amount (ie 15% of
           USD 100=USD 15).

       (3) The counterparty credit risk exposure is calculated by multiplying

           (a) the sum of the replacement cost and aggregate add-on for potential
               future exposure; by

           (b) 1.4, which is the prescribed value of alpha.

99.125 The counterparty credit risk exposure in this example, assuming the replacement
      cost and aggregate add-on amounts are unknown, is therefore USD 161. Assuming the futures contract is cleared through a qualifying CCP, a
      risk weight of 2% applies, so that RWACCR is USD 3.2. There is no
       CVA charge assessed since the futures contract is cleared through a CCP.

99.126 The RWA of the fund is hence obtained by adding RWA on-BS, RWA underlying and
       RWACCR, ie USD 203.2 (=100 + 100 + 3.2).

99.127 The RWA (USD 203.2) will be divided by the total assets of the fund (USD 100)
      resulting in an average risk-weight of 203.2%. The bank’s total RWA associated
      with its equity investment is calculated as the product of the average risk weight
      of the fund, the fund’s maximum leverage and the size of the bank’s equity
      investment. That is the bank’s total associated RWA 
      is USD 40.6.

Calculation of the leverage adjustment
99.128 Consider a fund with assets of USD 100 that invests in corporate debt. Assume
      that the fund is highly levered with equity of USD 5 and debt of USD 95. Such a
      fund would have financial leverage of 100/5=20. Consider the two cases below.

99.129 In Case 1 the fund specialises in low-rated corporate debt, it has the following
      balance sheet:

                                                  Assets

        Cash                                                                USD 10

        A+ to A- bonds                                                      USD 20

        BBB+ to BB- bonds                                                   USD 30

        Below BB- bonds                                                     USD 40

                                                Liabilities

        Debt                                                                USD 95

                                                  Equity

        Shares, retained earnings and other reserves                         USD 5



99.130 The average risk weight of the fund is (USD10*0% + USD20*50% + USD30*100%
      + USD40*150%)/USD100 = 100%. The financial leverage of 20 would result in an
      effective risk weight of 2,000% for banks’ investments in this highly levered fund,
      however, this is capped at a conservative risk weight of 1,250%.

99.131 In Case 2 the fund specialises in high-rated corporate debt, it has the following
      balance sheet:



                                                  Assets

        Cash                                                                   USD 5

        AAA to AA- bonds                                                      USD 75

        A+ to A- bonds                                                        USD 20

                                                Liabilities

        Debt                                                                  USD 95

                                                  Equity

        Shares, retained earnings and other reserves                           USD 5



99.132 The average risk weight of the fund is 25%. The financial leverage of 20 results in an effective risk weight of
      500%.

99.133 The above examples illustrate that the rate at which the 1,250% cap is reached
      depends on the underlying riskiness of the portfolio (as judged by the average
      risk weight) as captured by standardised approach risk weights or the IRB
      approach. For example, for a “risky” portfolio (100% average risk weight), the
      1,250% limit is reached fairly quickly with a leverage of 12.5x, while for a “low
      risk” portfolio (25% average risk weight) this limit is reached at a leverage of 50x.


                                 MAR
                                 Calculation of RWA for
                                 market risk
                                 This standard describes how to calculate capital
                                 requirements for market risk and credit valuation
                                 adjustment risk.




                                 MAR10
                                 Definition and application for
                                 market risk
                                 This chapter defines market risk, the scope and
                                 coverage of market risk capital requirements and
                                 the methods available for calculating market risk
                                 capital requirements.


                                



Definition of market risk
10.1   Market risk is defined as the risk of losses in on and off-balance-sheet positions
       arising from movements in market prices. The risks subject to this requirement
       are:

       (1) The risks pertaining to interest rate related instruments and equities in the
           trading book;

       (2) Foreign exchange risk and commodities risk throughout the bank.


Scope and coverage of the capital requirements
10.2   The capital requirements for interest rate related instruments and equities will
       apply to the current trading book items prudently valued by banks, alongside
       CAP50. The definition of trading book is set out in RBC25.

10.3   All transactions, including forward sales and purchases, shall be included in the
       calculation of capital requirements as from the date on which they were entered
       into. Although regular reporting will in principle take place only at intervals (in
       most countries quarterly), banks are expected to manage the market risk in their
       trading book in such a way that the capital requirements are being met on a
       continuous basis, ie at the close of each business day. Supervisory authorities
       have at their disposal a number of effective measures to ensure that banks do not
       “window-dress” by showing significantly lower market risk positions on reporting
       dates. Banks will also, of course, be expected to maintain strict risk management
       systems to ensure that intra-day exposures are not excessive. If a bank fails to
       meet the capital requirements, the national authority shall ensure that the bank
       takes immediate measures to rectify the situation.

10.4   The capital requirements for foreign exchange risk and for commodities risk will
       apply to banks’ total currency and commodity positions, subject to some
       discretion to exclude structural foreign exchange positions. It is understood that
       some of these positions will be reported and hence evaluated at market value,
       but some may be reported and evaluated at book value.

10.5   A matched currency position will protect a bank against loss from movements in
       exchange rates, but will not necessarily protect its capital adequacy ratio. If a
       bank has its capital denominated in its domestic currency and has a portfolio of
       foreign currency assets and liabilities that is completely matched, its capital/asset
       ratio will fall if the domestic currency depreciates. By running a short position in
       the domestic currency the bank can protect its capital adequacy ratio, although
       the position would lead to a loss if the domestic currency were to appreciate.


10.6   Supervisory authorities are free to allow banks to protect their capital adequacy
       ratio in this way. Thus, any positions which a bank has deliberately taken in order
       to hedge partially or totally against the adverse effect of the exchange rate on its
       capital ratio may be excluded from the calculation of net open currency positions,
       subject to each of the following conditions being met:

       (1) such positions need to be of a “structural”, ie of a non-dealing, nature (the
           precise definition to be set by national authorities according to national
           accounting standards and practices);

       (2) the national authority needs to be satisfied that the “structural” position
           excluded does no more than protect the bank’s capital adequacy ratio;

       (3) any exclusion of the position needs to be applied consistently, with the
           treatment of the hedge remaining the same for the life of the assets or other
           items.

10.7   No capital requirements need apply to positions related to items that are
       deducted from a bank’s capital when calculating its capital base, such as
       investments in non-consolidated subsidiaries, nor to other long-term
       participations denominated in foreign currencies which are reported in the
       published accounts at historic cost. These may also be treated as structural
       positions.

10.8   Positions in the bank’s own eligible regulatory capital instruments are deducted
       from capital. Positions in other banks’, securities firms’, and other financial
       entities’ eligible regulatory capital instruments, as well as intangible assets, will
       receive the same treatment as that set down by the national supervisor for such
       assets held in the banking book, which in many cases is deduction from capital.
       Where a bank demonstrates that it is an active market maker then a national
       supervisor may establish a dealer exception for holdings of other banks’,
       securities firms’, and other financial entities’ capital instruments in the trading
       book. In order to qualify for the dealer exception, the bank must have adequate
       systems and controls surrounding the trading of financial institutions’ eligible
       regulatory capital instruments.




10.9   In the same way as for credit risk, the capital requirements for market risk are to
       apply on a worldwide consolidated basis. Where appropriate, national authorities
       may permit banking and financial entities in a group which is running a global
       consolidated book and whose capital is being assessed on a global basis to
       report short and long positions in exactly the same instrument (eg currencies,
       commodities, equities or bonds), on a net basis, no matter where they are booked.
       
         Moreover, the offsetting rules as set out in this section may also be applied on a
       consolidated basis. Nonetheless, there will be circumstances in which supervisory
       authorities demand that the individual positions be taken into the measurement
       system without any offsetting or netting against positions in the remainder of the
       group. This may be needed, for example, where there are obstacles to the quick
       repatriation of profits from a foreign subsidiary or where there are legal and
       procedural difficulties in carrying out the timely management of risks on a
       consolidated basis. Moreover, all national authorities will retain the right to
       continue to monitor the market risks of individual entities on a non-consolidated
       basis to ensure that significant imbalances within a group do not escape
       supervision. Supervisory authorities will be especially vigilant in ensuring that
       banks do not pass positions on reporting dates in such a way as to escape
       measurement.


   The positions of less than wholly-owned subsidiaries would be subject
                   to the generally accepted accounting principles in the country where
                   the parent company is supervised.



Correlation trading portfolio
10.10 For the purposes of this framework, the correlation trading portfolio incorporates
      securitisation exposures and n-th-to-default credit derivatives that meet the
      following criteria:

       (1) The positions are neither resecuritisation positions, nor derivatives of
           securitisation exposures that do not provide a pro-rata share in the proceeds
           of a securitisation tranche (this therefore excludes options on a securitisation
           tranche, or a synthetically leveraged super-senior tranche); and



     (2) All reference obligations are single-name products, including single-name
         credit derivatives, for which a liquid two-way market exists. This will include
         commonly traded indices based on these reference obligations. A two-way
         market is deemed to exist where there are independent bona fide offers to
         buy and sell so that a price reasonably related to the last sales price or
         current bona fide competitive bid and offer quotations can be determined
         within one day and settled at such price within a relatively short time
         conforming to trade custom.

     (3) Positions which reference an underlying that would be treated as a retail
         exposure, a residential mortgage exposure or a commercial mortgage
         exposure under the standardised approach to credit risk are not included in
         the correlation trading portfolio.

     (4) Positions which reference a claim on a special purpose entity are not
         included either.

     (5) A bank may also include in the correlation trading portfolio positions that
         hedge the positions described above and which are neither securitisation
         exposures nor n-th-to-default credit derivatives and where a liquid two-way
         market as described above exists for the instrument or its underlyings.



     FAQ
     FAQ1      Leveraged super-senior tranches have to be treated according to
               standardised rules. We hedge leveraged super-senior tranches with
               non-leveraged super-senior tranches. This has the bad effect of
               increasing the credit risk capital requirement because of unhedged
               positions and increasing the floor for the comprehensive risk measure
               at the same time for the same reason. Can we treat the super-senior
               tranches which serve as hedges to leveraged super-senior tranches in
               the same way as leveraged super-senior tranches?

               From an economical point it makes sense to treat positions and their
               hedges together for capital calculations. This may be acceptable as
               long as this is done in a consistent way and the supervisor can be
               reassured that no capital arbitrage is done by changing the scope of
               comprehensive risk measure modelling on an ongoing basis.

               From a regulatory perspective this exclusion may also be acceptable.
               MAR10.10 states that: “For the purposes of this framework, the
               correlation trading portfolio incorporates securitisation exposures and
               n-th-to-default credit derivatives that meet the following criteria: …”
               Accordingly, credit risk capital requirement models do not have to
               incorporate all the securitisation exposures and n-th-to-default credit
               derivatives which meet the criteria to be “modelled”.

     FAQ2      What exactly is meant by “[...] that do not provide a pro-rata share in
               the proceeds of a securitisation tranche [...]” in MAR10.10(1)?

               This provision is intended to capture any complex “double leverage”
               position, but which might not be captured by the definition of re-
               securitisation and therefore automatically excluded.

     FAQ3      What is the rationale for the exclusion of synthetically leveraged super-
               senior tranches from the incremental risk capital (IRC) requirement and
               the correlation trading portfolio?

               “Synthetically leveraged super-senior tranche” in this context refers
               specifically to a type of position that has a non-linear pay-off profile
               referencing a super-senior collateralised debt obligation (CDO)
               position. In any case, the non-linearity is driven by the fact that the
               super-senior tranche is leveraged. Beyond this, the non-linearity may
               also result from the presence of certain trigger events that can cause
               the pay-off from a leveraged super-senior position to be dislocated
               from that of the super-senior tranche to which it is referenced under




               certain scenarios. In this context, a synthetically leveraged super-senior
               position does not provide a pro-rata share in the proceeds of a
               securitisation tranche.

               The following example highlights the inconsistency between the
               leveraged super-senior tranche and the super-senior tranche that leads
               to its exclusion. This example is stylised and is based on a description
               of leveraged super-senior tranches provided in A DeServigny and N
               Jost (ed), Handbook of Structured Finance, Standard and Poor’s.

               Consider a CDO with 100 obligors. Suppose that the super-senior
               tranche is defined with an attachment point of 20% of pool losses and
               a detachment point of 100% of pool losses. Accordingly, a protection
               seller of a super-senior tranche receives a pre-specified payment over
               the life of the tranche, say five years, in return for protecting the
               protection buyer against all losses in excess of 20% of the pool’s
               notional value, say $100m. Now consider a leveraged super-senior
               tranche that is structured as follows. The leveraged super-senior
               tranche is identified with an attachment point of 20% and a
               detachment point of 28%. Further the leveraged super-senior tranche is
               subject to a “trigger”. The trigger is a pre-specified event. The
               occurrence of the trigger events results in an “unwind”. In the event of
               an “unwind” the protection seller makes a cash payment to the
               protection buyer sufficient to purchase protection on losses from 29%
               to 100% of the pool. Consider the case of a weighted average spread
               (WAS) trigger in which case an “unwind” occurs if the WAS of all
               names in the CDO portfolio exceeds 200 basis points.

               Now consider the following event. On the first day of the transaction,
               all credit default swap spreads on all obligors increase from 100 to 250
               basis points and remain at that level until the end of year five. At the
               end of year five, no defaults have occurred in the portfolio.

               In this case the protection seller of the super-senior tranche has
               received all premium payments and made no payments. Accordingly,
               the protection seller books a net profit. In the case of the leveraged
               super-senior tranche, the protection seller receives no premium
               payments and makes a payment on day one to purchase protection on
               the 28% to 100% portion of the super-senior tranche. Accordingly, the
               protection seller has booked a net loss.

               This example illustrates that the proceeds from an investment in a
               super-senior and a leveraged super-senior tranche are not always
               proportional. Two specific points are worth noting here. First, the
               proceeds of two investment structures are considered to be

                  proportional (pro rata) if this is the case in all possible scenarios.
                  Proportionality makes no reference to the likelihood of any set of
                  events. Second, in the case of leveraged super-senior tranches the non-
                  proportionality is driven by the presence of trigger events that result in
                  a divergence between the payoff of the super-senior tranche and the
                  leveraged super-senior tranche. The example above has considered one
                  particular sort of trigger. In general there are a variety of complex
                  trigger events that are built into leveraged super-senior structures.
                  Whenever these triggers result in a divergence of the payoffs of the
                  leveraged super-senior tranche from the corresponding super-senior
                  tranche the leveraged super-senior tranche would be excluded from the
                  correlation trading portfolio.

       FAQ4       MAR10.10(4) specifies that “positions which reference a claim on a
                  special purpose entity are not included either”. However, in the context
                  of a securitisations operation, notes issued by a special purpose entity
                  (SPE) are claims on this SPE (collateralised by asset portfolios). This
                  may probably need further clarification. What was the exact purpose of
                  the sentence? Certainly not to exclude all kind of structures using SPEs.

                  The intent is to ensure that the SPE structure is not used to evade the
                  criteria limiting the types of positions that may be included in the
                  correlation trading portfolio. Specifically, a bank must exclude from the
                  correlation trading portfolio any SPE-issued instrument backed, directly
                  or indirectly, by a position that would itself be excluded if held by the
                  bank directly. Thus, notes issued by an SPE holding residential or
                  commercial mortgages would not be eligible for inclusion in the
                  correlation trading portfolio. However, a cash CDO position could be
                  included in the correlation trading portfolio if the assets underlying the
                  CDO met all of the relevant criteria (eg the underlyings are single-
                  name corporate bonds having liquid two-way markets).



Methods of measuring market risks
10.11 Each bank subject to capital requirements for market risk will be expected to
      monitor and report the level of risk against which a capital requirement is to be
      applied. In measuring their market risks, a choice between two broad
      methodologies (described in MAR20 and MAR30, respectively) will be permitted,
      subject to the approval of the national authorities.

       (1) One alternative will be to measure the risks in a standardised manner, using
           the measurement frameworks described in MAR20.


       (2) The alternative methodology, which is subject to the fulfilment of certain
           conditions and the use of which is therefore conditional upon the explicit
           approval of the bank’s supervisory authority, is set out in MAR30. This
           method allows banks to use risk measures derived from their own internal
           risk management models, subject to seven sets of general conditions,
           namely:

            (a) certain general criteria concerning the adequacy of the risk
                management system;

            (b) qualitative standards for internal oversight of the use of models, notably
                by management;

            (c)   guidelines for specifying an appropriate set of market risk factors (ie the
                  market rates and prices that affect the value of banks’ positions);

            (d) quantitative standards setting out the use of common minimum
                statistical parameters for measuring risk;

            (e) guidelines for stress testing;

            (f)   validation procedures for external oversight of the use of models;

            (g) rules for banks which use a mixture of models and the standardised
                approach.

10.12 Unless a bank’s exposure to a particular risk factor, such as commodity prices, is
      insignificant, the internal models approach will in principle require banks to have
      an integrated risk measurement system that captures the broad risk factor
      categories (ie interest rates, exchange rates (which may include gold), equity
      prices and commodity prices, with related options volatilities being included in
      each risk factor category). Thus, banks which start to use models for one or more
      risk factor categories will, over time, be expected to extend the models to all their
      market risks. A bank which has developed one or more models will no longer be
      able to revert to measuring the risk measured by those models according to the
      standardised methodology (unless the supervisory authority withdraws approval
      for that model). However, pending further experience regarding the process of
      changing to an internal models approach, no specific time limit will be set for
      banks which use a combination of internal models and the standardised
      approach to move to a comprehensive model. The following conditions will apply
      to banks using such combinations:




     (1) Each broad risk factor category must be assessed using a single approach
         (either internal models or the standardised approach), ie no combination of


         the two methods will in principle be permitted within a risk category or
         across banks’ different entities for the same type of risk (but see MAR10.12
         above);

     (2) All the criteria laid down in MAR30 will apply to the models being used;

     (3) Banks may not modify the combination of the two approaches they use
         without justifying to their supervisory authority that they have a good reason
         for doing so;

     (4) No element of market risk may escape measurement, ie the exposure for all
         the various risk factors, whether calculated according to the standardised
         approach or internal models, would have to be captured;

     (5) The capital requirements assessed under the standardised approach and
         under the models approach are to be aggregated according to the simple
         sum method.

  However, banks may incur risks in positions which are not captured by
                 their models, for example, in remote locations, in minor currencies or
                 in negligible business areas. Such risks should be measured according
                 to the standardised methodology.




      FAQ
      FAQ1        Will partial model approvals be allowed under the framework (eg,
                  internal models for some credit positions, with standardised specific
                  risk charges for positions not having approved incremental risk capital
                  (IRC) or comprehensive risk models)?

                  Partial approval will be permitted on a case-by-case basis in line with
                  local regulations. In particular, as new products and businesses arise
                  supervisors may want to have the authority to restrict certain products
                  from the IRC or comprehensive risk model. A simple model for partial
                  approval would be:

                  - One set of products are approved for IRC. For these products there is
                    a single comprehensive, fully integrated model, not a set of IRC
                    models taken one at a time. Likewise, a similar approach would be
                    used for comprehensive risk models.

                  - The remaining products attract the fallback capital requirement
                    according to the standardised measurement method.

                  To clarify, this does not mean that a bank would be able to have
                  “partial use” for any particular element of specific interest rate risk (eg
                  include corporate positions in VaR for specific risk without including
                  corporates in the IRC). Supervisors should consider the risks of cherry-
                  picking if they allow partial use.



Types of market risk capital requirement
10.13 The minimum capital requirement for market risk is expressed in terms of:

      (1) general market risk; and

      (2) specific risk (ie risk associated with exposures to specific issuers of debt
          securities or equities).



   Specific risk includes the risk that an individual debt or equity security
                   moves by more or less than the general market in day-to-day trading
                   (including periods when the whole market is volatile) and event risk
                   (where the price of an individual debt or equity security moves
                   precipitously relative to the general market, eg on a take-over bid or
                   some other shock event; such events would also include the risk of
                   “default”).



Treatment of specific risk using the internal models approach
10.14 The standardised approach uses a “building-block” approach in which specific
      risk and the general market risk arising from debt and equity positions are
      calculated separately. The focus of most internal models is a bank’s general
      market risk exposure, typically leaving specific risk to be measured largely
      through separate credit risk measurement systems. Banks using models should
      be subject to capital requirements for the specific risk not captured by their
      models. Accordingly, a separate capital requirement for specific risk will apply to
      each bank using a model to the extent that the model does not capture specific
      risk. The capital requirement for banks which are modelling specific risk is set out
      in MAR10.15 to MAR10.18 and MAR30.28 to MAR30.43.

10.15 For equity positions, where a bank has a value-at-risk (VaR) measure that
      incorporates specific risk from equity risk positions and where a supervisor has
      determined that the bank meets all the qualitative and quantitative requirements
      for general market risk models, as well as the additional criteria and requirements
      set out in paragraphs MAR30.28 to MAR30.32, the bank is not required to subject
      its equity positions to the capital requirement according to the standardised
      measurement method as specified in MAR20.

10.16 For interest rate risk positions other than securitisation exposures and n-th-to-
      default credit derivatives, the bank will not be required to subject these positions
      to the standardised capital requirement for specific risk, as specified in MAR20.4
      to MAR20.21, when all of the following conditions hold:

       (1) The bank has a VaR measure that incorporates specific risk and the
           supervisor has determined that the bank meets all the qualitative and
           quantitative requirements for general market risk models, as well as the
           additional criteria and requirements set out in MAR30.28 to MAR30.32; and


     (2) The supervisor is satisfied that the bank’s internally developed approach
         adequately captures incremental default and migration risks for positions
         subject to specific interest rate risk according to the standards laid out in
         MAR30.33 and MAR30.34.


     FAQ
     FAQ1        Will partial model approvals be allowed under the framework (eg
                 internal models for some credit positions, with standardised specific
                 risk charges for positions not having approved incremental risk capital
                 (IRC) or comprehensive risk models)?

                 Partial approval will be permitted on a case-by-case basis in line with
                 local regulations. In particular, as new products and businesses arise
                 supervisors may want to have the authority to restrict certain products
                 from the IRC or comprehensive risk model. A simple model for partial
                 approval would be:

                 - One set of products are approved for IRC. For these products there is
                   a single comprehensive, fully integrated model, not a set of IRC
                   models taken one at a time. Likewise, a similar approach would be
                   used for comprehensive risk models.

                 - The remaining products attract the fallback capital requirement
                   according to the standardised measurement method.

                 To clarify, this does not mean that a bank would be able to have
                 “partial use” for any particular element of specific interest rate risk (eg
                 include corporate positions in VaR for specific risk without including
                 corporates in the IRC). Supervisors should consider the risks of cherry-
                 picking if they allow partial use.

     FAQ2        Do the products currently approved for specific risk under the current
                 regime need to go through an approval process for the IRC
                 requirement? Do banks need separate IRC requirement model approval
                 for each product or will a blanket approval be granted for the IRC
                 model for non-securitisation positions?

                 According to MAR30.2, the use of an internal model will be conditional
                 upon the explicit approval of the bank’s supervisors. Only when a bank
                 holds the two supervisory approvals ((1) approval to use the market
                 risk model which extends to specific interest rate risk; and (2) approval
                 to use an IRC requirement model) can it avoid using the standardised
                 approach for determining the minimum capital requirements for
                 specific interest rate risk. The supervisor may grant both approvals in a



                  single administrative act. As these approvals relate to different internal
                  models, however, in practice the supervisor may perform the necessary
                  assessments under distinct approval processes.

                  Whether banks need separate approval for each product for the IRC
                  requirement model (and the market risk model for specific risk), or
                  whether the supervisor grants a blanket approval, depends on the
                  implementation of the market risk framework in the relevant
                  jurisdiction.


10.17 For securitisation exposures and n-th-defualt credit derivatives, the bank is
      allowed to include its securitisation exposures and n-th-to-default credit
      derivatives in its VaR measure. Notwithstanding, it is still required to hold
      additional capital for these products according to the standardised approach,
      with the exceptions noted in MAR30.35 to MAR30.43.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       According to MAR10.17, even a bank that includes securitisation
                  exposures or n-th-to-default credit derivatives in its VaR measure must
                  hold additional capital for these products according to the standardised
                  measurement method, with the exceptions noted in MAR30.35 to
                  MAR30.39. With respect to general market risk the bank may still be
                  allowed to determine the capital requirement for those products using
                  a VaR model according to MAR30.15. This leads to the question which
                  risks are considered general market risk with respect to VaR modelling.
                  The main issue in this context is whether credit spread risks form part
                  of specific risk or general market risk.

                  There is no unified approach across banks or across jurisdictions on
                  how to make the distinction between general market risk and specific
                  risks. Banks are invited to turn to their national supervisor for guidance.


10.18 For the correlation trading portfolio, the bank is allowed to include
      comprehensive risk of correlation trading portfolio in its internally developed
      approach as set out in MAR30.35 only when the bank is active in buying and
      selling correlation trading portfolio products.



       MAR20
                                 Standardised approach
                                 This chapter sets out a standardised approach
                                 for calculating risk-weighted assets for market
                                 risk.




Risk-weighted assets
20.1   The risk-weighted assets (RWA) for market risk under the standardised approach
       are determined by multiplying the capital requirements calculated as set out in
       this chapter by 12.5.

       (1) MAR20.2 to MAR20.72 deal with interest rate, equity, foreign exchange and
           commodities risk.

       (2) MAR20.73 to MAR20.85 set out a number of possible methods for
           measuring the price risk in options of all kinds.

       (3) The capital requirement under the standardised measurement method will
           be the measures of risk obtained from MAR20.2 to MAR20.85, summed
           arithmetically.


Interest rate risk
20.2   This section sets out the standard approach for measuring the risk of holding or
       taking positions in debt securities and other interest-rate-related instruments in
       the trading book. The instruments covered include all fixed-rate and floating-rate
       debt securities and instruments that behave like them, including non-convertible
       preference shares. Convertible bonds, ie debt issues or preference shares that
       are convertible, at a stated price, into common shares of the issuer, will be
       treated as debt securities if they trade like debt securities and as equities if they
       trade like equities. The basis for dealing with derivative products is considered in
       MAR20.30 to MAR20.39 below.


  Traded mortgage securities and mortgage derivative products possess
                   unique characteristics because of the risk of prepayment. Accordingly,
                   for the time being, no common treatment will apply to these securities,
                   which will be dealt with at national discretion. A security which is the
                   subject of a repurchase or securities lending agreement will be treated
                   as if it were still owned by the lender of the security, ie it will be treated
                   in the same manner as other securities positions.





20.3   The minimum capital requirement is expressed in terms of two separately
       calculated amounts, one applying to the “specific risk” of each security, whether it
       is a short or a long position, and the other to the interest rate risk in the portfolio
       (termed “general market risk”) where long and short positions in different
       securities or instruments can be offset.


Specific risk

20.4   The capital requirement for specific risk is designed to protect against an adverse
       movement in the price of an individual security owing to factors related to the
       individual issuer. In measuring the risk, offsetting will be restricted to matched
       positions in the identical issue (including positions in derivatives). Even if the
       issuer is the same, no offsetting will be permitted between different issues since
       differences in coupon rates, liquidity, call features, etc mean that prices may
       diverge in the short run.



       FAQ
       FAQ1       What could be the conditions under which trading book positions that
                  are subject to interest rate specific risk could be netted in order to
                  derive either the net long position or the net short position? Are the
                  rules considering a perfect hedge only? Is it allowed to net cash and
                  synthetic securitisations for the purpose of the capital calculation for
                  structured products under the standardised approach for correlation
                  trading?

                  Netting is only allowed under limited circumstances for interest rate
                  specific risk as explained in MAR20.4: “offsetting will be restricted to
                  matched positions in the identical issue (including positions in
                  derivatives). Even if the issuer is the same, no offsetting will be
                  permitted between different issues since differences in coupon rates,
                  liquidity, call features, etc means that prices may diverge in the short
                  run.”

                  In addition, partial offsetting is allowed in two other sets of
                  circumstances. One set of circumstances is described in MAR20.20 and
                  concerns n-th-to-default basked products. The other set of
                  circumstances described in MAR20.15 to MAR20.17 pertains to
                  offsetting between a credit derivative (whether total return swap or
                  credit default swap) and the underlying exposure (ie cash position).
                  Although this treatment applies generally in a one-for-one fashion, it is
                  possible that multiple instruments could combine to create a hedge
                  that would be eligible for consideration for partial offsetting.
                  Supervisors should recognise that, in the case of multiple instruments
                  comprising one side of the position, necessary conditions (ie value of
                  two legs moving in opposite directions, key contractual features of the
                  credit derivative, identical reference obligations and currency/maturity
                  mismatches) will be extremely difficult to meet, in practice.


20.5   The specific risk capital requirements for “government” and “other” categories will
       be as follows.

Categories
External credit assessment
 Specific risk capital requirements 

Government
AAA to AA-
O%
A+ to BBB-
0.25% (residual term to final maturity 6 months or less)
1.00% (residual term to final maturity greater than 6 and up to and including 24 months)
1.60% (residual term to final maturity exceeding 24 months)
BB+ to B- 
8.00%
Below B-
12.00%
Unrated 
8.00%

Qualifying
0.25% (residual term to final maturity 6 months or less)
1.00% (residual term to final maturity greater than 6 and up to and including 24 months)
1.60% (residual term to final maturity exceeding 24 months)

Other 
Similar to credit risk charges under the standardised approach of this framework eg
BB+ to B- 
8.00%
Below B-
12.00%
Unrated 
8.00%

20.6   The category “government” will include all forms of government paper including
       bonds, Treasury bills and other short-term instruments, but national authorities
       reserve the right to apply a specific risk capital requirement to securities issued
       by certain foreign governments, especially to securities denominated in a
       currency other than that of the issuing government.



Including, at national discretion, local and regional governments
                   subject to a zero credit risk weight in CRE20.


20.7   When the government paper is denominated in the domestic currency and
       funded by the bank in the same currency, at national discretion a lower specific
       risk capital requirement may be applied.

20.8   The “qualifying” category includes securities issued by public sector entities and
       multilateral development banks, plus other securities that are:

       (1) rated investment grade by at least two credit rating agencies specified by
           the national authority; or

       (2) rated investment grade by one rating agency and not less than investment
           grade by any other rating agency specified by the national authority (subject
           to supervisory oversight); or

       (3) subject to supervisory approval, unrated, but deemed to be of comparable
           investment quality by the reporting bank, and the issuer has securities listed
           on a recognised stock exchange.


For example, investment grade include rated Baa or higher by Moody’s
                   and BBB or higher by Standard and Poor’s.


20.9   Each supervisory authority will be responsible for monitoring the application of
       these qualifying criteria, particularly in relation to the last criterion where the
       initial classification is essentially left to the reporting banks. National authorities
       will also have discretion to include within the qualifying category debt securities
       issued by banks in countries which have implemented this Framework, subject to
       the express understanding that supervisory authorities in such countries
       undertake prompt remedial action if a bank fails to meet the capital standards set
       forth in this Framework. Similarly, national authorities will have discretion to
       include within the qualifying category debt securities issued by securities firms
       that are subject to equivalent rules.

20.10 Furthermore, the “qualifying” category shall include securities issued by
      institutions that are deemed to be equivalent to investment grade quality and
      subject to supervisory and regulatory arrangements comparable to those under
      this Framework.


20.11 Unrated securities may be included in the “qualifying” category when they are
      subject to supervisory approval, unrated, but deemed to be of comparable
      investment quality by the reporting bank, and the issuer has securities listed on a
      recognised stock exchange. This will remain unchanged for banks using the
      standardised approach. For banks using the internal ratings-based (IRB) approach
      for a portfolio, unrated securities can be included in the “qualifying” category if
      both of the following conditions are met:

       (1) the securities are rated equivalent to investment grade under the reporting
           bank’s internal rating system, which the national supervisor has confirmed
           complies with the requirements for an IRB approach; and

       (2) the issuer has securities listed on a recognised stock exchange.


 Equivalent means the debt security has a one-year probability of
                   default (PD) equal to or less than the one year PD implied by the long-
                   run average one-year PD of a security rated investment grade or better
                   by a qualifying rating agency.


20.12 Instruments issued by a non-qualifying issuer will receive the same specific risk
      charge as a non-investment grade corporate borrower under the standardised
      approach for credit risk under this Framework.

20.13 However, since this may in certain cases considerably underestimate the specific
      risk for debt instruments which have a high yield to redemption relative to
      government debt securities, each national supervisor will have the discretion:

       (1) to apply a higher specific risk charge to such instruments; and/or

       (2) to disallow offsetting for the purposes of defining the extent of general
           market risk between such instruments and any other debt instruments.

20.14 The specific risk capital requirement of securitisation positions which are held in
      the trading book is to be calculated according to the revised method for such
      positions in the banking book as set out in the revised securitisation framework in
      CRE40 to CRE44. Alternatively, jurisdictions may allow banks to use the method
      they currently use for calculating their specific risk capital requirement of
      securitisation positions so long as any such method was applied by banks prior to
      2019. A bank shall calculate the specific risk capital requirement applicable to
      each net securitisation position by dividing the risk weight calculated as if it were
      held in the banking book by 12.5.

20.15 Full allowance will be recognised for positions hedged by credit derivatives when
      the values of two legs (ie long and short) always move in the opposite direction
      and broadly to the same extent. This would be the case in the following
      situations, in which cases no specific risk capital requirement applies to both sides
      of the position.

       (1) the two legs consist of completely identical instruments, or

       (2) a long cash position (or credit derivative) is hedged by a total rate of return
           swap (or vice versa) and there is an exact match between the reference
           obligation and the underlying exposure (ie the cash position).

The maturity of the swap itself may be different from that of the
                   underlying exposure.




     FAQ
     FAQ1      According to MAR20.15 to MAR20.17, the offsetting treatment is
               applied to a cash position that is hedged by a credit derivative or a
               credit derivative that is hedged by another credit derivative, assuming
               there is an exact match in terms of the reference obligations. Please
               illustrate the treatment.

               MAR20.15 to MAR20.17 are applicable not only when the underlying
               position being hedged is a cash position, but also when the position
               being hedged is a credit default swap (CDS) or other credit derivative.
               They also apply regardless of whether the cash positions or reference
               obligations of the credit derivative are single-name or securitisation
               exposures.

               For example, when a long cash position is hedged using a CDS, the
               80% offset treatment of MAR20.16 (the partial allowance treatment of
               MAR20.17) generally applies when the reference obligation of the CDS
               is the cash instrument being hedged and the currencies and remaining
               maturities of the two positions are (are not) identical. Similarly, when a
               purchased CDS is hedged with a sold CDS, the 80% offset treatment
               (the partial allowance treatment) generally applies when both the long
               and short CDSs have the same reference obligations and the currencies
               and remaining maturities of the long and short CDSs are (are not)
               identical. The full allowance (100% offset) treatment generally applies
               only when there is zero basis risk between the instrument being
               hedged and the hedging instrument, such as when a cash position is
               hedged with a total rate of return swap referencing the same cash
               instrument and there is no currency mismatch, or when a purchased
               CDS position is hedged by selling a CDS with identical terms in all
               respects, including reference obligation, currency, maturity,
               documentation clauses (eg credit payout events, methods for
               determining payouts for credit events), and structure of fixed and
               variable payments over time.

               As explained in MAR20.4 and MAR20.4 FAQ1, it is worth noting that
               the conditions under which partial or full offsetting of risk positions
               that are subject to interest rate specific risk are narrowly defined. In
               practice, offsets between securitisation positions and credit derivatives
               are unlikely to be recognised in most cases due to the explicit
               requirements in MAR20.15 to MAR20.17 on reference names etc.


20.16 An 80% offset will be recognised when the value of two legs (ie long and short)
      always moves in the opposite direction but not broadly to the same extent. This
      would be the case when a long cash position (or credit derivative) is hedged by a
       credit default swap (CDS) or a credit-linked note (or vice versa) and there is an
       exact match in terms of the reference obligation, the maturity of both the
       reference obligation and the credit derivative, and the currency of the underlying
       exposure. In addition, key features of the credit derivative contract (eg credit
       event definitions, settlement mechanisms) should not cause the price movement
       of the credit derivative to materially deviate from the price movements of the
       cash position. To the extent that the transaction transfers risk (ie taking account
       of restrictive payout provisions such as fixed payouts and materiality thresholds),
       an 80% specific risk offset will be applied to the side of the transaction with the
       higher capital requirement, while the specific risk requirement on the other side
       will be zero.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        The FAQ under MAR20.15 also applies to MAR20.16.


20.17 Partial allowance will be recognised when the value of the two legs (ie long and
      short) usually moves in the opposite direction. This would be the case in the
      following situations:

       (1) the position is captured in MAR20.15(2), but there is an asset mismatch
           between the reference obligation and the underlying exposure. Nonetheless,
           the position meets the requirements in CRE22.86.

       (2) The position is captured in MAR20.15(1) or MAR20.16 but there is a currency
           or maturity mismatch6 between the credit protection and the underlying
           asset.

       (3) The position is captured in MAR20.16 but there is an asset mismatch
           between the cash position (or credit derivative) and the credit derivative
           hedge. However, the underlying asset is included in the (deliverable)
           obligations in the credit derivative documentation.


       Footnotes
       6           Currency mismatches should feed into the normal reporting of foreign
                   exchange risk.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        The FAQ under MAR20.15 also applies to MAR20.17.


20.18 In each of these cases in MAR20.15 to MAR20.17, the following rule applies.
      Rather than adding the specific risk capital requirements for each side of the
      transaction (ie the credit protection and the underlying asset) only the higher of
      the two capital requirements will apply.

20.19 In cases not captured in MAR20.15 to MAR20.17, a specific risk capital
      requirement will be assessed against both sides of the position.

20.20 An n-th-to-default credit derivative is a contract where the payoff is based on the
      n-th asset to default in a basket of underlying reference instruments. Once the n-
      th default occurs the transaction terminates and is settled.

       (1) The capital requirement for specific risk for a first-to-default credit derivative
           is the lesser of:

           (a) the sum of the specific risk capital requirements for the individual
               reference credit instruments in the basket; and

           (b) the maximum possible credit event payment under the contract.

       (2) Where a bank has a risk position in one of the reference credit instruments
           underlying a first-to-default credit derivative and this credit derivative
           hedges the bank’s risk position, the bank is allowed to reduce with respect to
           the hedged amount both the capital requirement for specific risk for the
           reference credit instrument and that part of the capital requirement for
           specific risk for the credit derivative that relates to this particular reference
           credit instrument. Where a bank has multiple risk positions in reference
           credit instruments underlying a first-to-default credit derivative this offset is
           allowed only for that underlying reference credit instrument having the
           lowest specific risk capital requirement.

       (3) The capital requirement for specific risk for an n-th-to-default credit
           derivative with n greater than one is the lesser of:

           (a) the sum of the specific risk capital requirements for the individual
               reference credit instruments in the basket but disregarding the (n-1)
               obligations with the lowest specific risk capital requirements; and

           (b) the maximum possible credit event payment under the contract. For n-
               th-to-default credit derivatives with n greater than 1 no offset of the
               capital requirement for specific risk with any underlying reference credit
               instrument is allowed.


     (4) If a first or other n-th-to-default credit derivative is externally rated, then the
         protection seller must calculate the specific risk capital requirement using
         the rating of the derivative and apply the respective securitisation risk
         weights as specified in the revised securitisation framework, as applicable.
         The alternative use of the current method specified in MAR20.14 is also
         applicable to this treatment.

     (5) The capital requirement against each net n-th-to-default credit derivative
         position applies irrespective of whether the bank has a long or short
         position, ie obtains or provides protection.


     FAQ
     FAQ1        MAR20.20(3) does not allow any offsetting with the use of second- or
                 more-to-default credit derivatives. However, for the banking book,
                 CRE22.104 allows offsetting by a second-to-default credit derivative if
                 a bank has first-to-default-protection or one of the assets within the
                 basket has already defaulted. This would be an inconsistency between
                 trading book and banking book.

                 This is factually correct, but the Committee has specifically removed
                 this previous treatment of second- or more-to-default credit derivatives
                 because it over-states the hedging benefits of these products.

                 If an n-th-to-default credit derivative is currently a first-to-default
                 credit derivative as a result of n-1 reference names in the basket
                 having defaulted, then the offsetting as described under MAR20.20(2)
                 for first-to-default credit derivatives would be permitted.

     FAQ2        The framework mentions only tranches and n-th-to-default products
                 explicitly, but not n-th to n+m-th-to-default products (eg the value
                 depends on the default of the 5th, 6th, 7th and 8th default in a pool;
                 only in specific cases such as the same nominal for all underlyings can
                 this product be represented by, for example, a 5% to 8% tranche). Are
                 n-th to n+m-th-to-default products covered in the framework?

                 Yes. Such products are to be decomposed into individual n-th-to-
                 default products and the rules for n-th-to-default products in MAR20.20
                 apply.

                 In the example cited above, the capital requirement for a basket
                 default swap covering defaults 5 through 8 would be calculated as the
                 sum of the capital requirements for a 5th-to-default swap, a 6th-to-
                 default swap, a 7th-to-default swap and an 8th-to-default swap.


20.21 A bank must determine the specific risk capital requirement for the correlation
      trading portfolio as follows:

       (1) The bank computes

           (a) the total specific risk capital requirements that would apply just to the
               net long positions from the net long correlation trading exposures
               combined; and

           (b) the total specific risk capital requirements that would apply just to the
               net short positions from the net short correlation trading exposures
               combined.

       (2) The larger of these total amounts is then the specific risk capital requirement
           for the correlation trading portfolio.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       Can the approach of taking the larger of the specific risk capital
                  requirements for net long positions and the specific risk capital
                  requirement for net short positions be applied to leveraged
                  securitisation positions or option products on securitisation positions?

                  No. Leveraged securitisation positions and option products on
                  securitisation positions are securitisation positions. They are not
                  admissible for the correlation trading portfolio according to MAR10.10.
                  The capital requirements for specific risk will be determined as the sum
                  of the capital requirements for specific risk against net long and net
                  short positions.

       FAQ2       The reference to mortgage-backed securities in MAR30.7 suggests they
                  can remain within an internal models-based approach and in value-at-
                  risk (VaR, the internal models approach); however, MAR10.17 and
                  MAR10.18 indicate that the standardised measurement method should
                  be used for all securitised products except for certain correlation
                  trading activities for which a comprehensive risk capital requirement
                  can be calculated. Can non-correlation trading securitisations be
                  incorporated in an internal models-based approach?

                  Securitisations which are not part of the correlation trading portfolio
                  are subject to a general market risk capital requirement and the
                  standardised capital requirement for specific risk. These positions must
                  be included in the bank’s VaR model for general market risk or be
                  subject to the standardised approach capital requirement for general
                  market risk. While the positions may be included in the bank’s internal


                  specific risk model, the specific risk capital requirement for
                  securitisations according to the standardised approach will apply as
                  well.



General market risk

20.22 The capital requirements for general market risk are designed to capture the risk
      of loss arising from changes in market interest rates. A choice between two
      principal methods of measuring the risk is permitted, a “maturity” method and a
      “duration” method. In each method, the capital requirement is the sum of four
      components:

       (1) the net short or long position in the whole trading book;

       (2) a small proportion of the matched positions in each time-band (the “vertical
           disallowance”);

       (3) a larger proportion of the matched positions across different time-bands
           (the “horizontal disallowance”); and

       (4) a net charge for positions in options, where appropriate (see MAR20.83 to
           MAR20.84).

20.23 Separate maturity ladders should be used for each currency and capital
      requirements should be calculated for each currency separately and then
      summed with no offsetting between positions of opposite sign. In the case of
      those currencies in which business is insignificant, separate maturity ladders for
      each currency are not required. Rather, the bank may construct a single maturity
      ladder and slot, within each appropriate time-band, the net long or short position
      for each currency. However, these individual net positions are to be summed
      within each time-band, irrespective of whether they are long or short positions, to
      produce a gross position figure.


20.24 In the maturity method (see MAR20.28 for the duration method), long or short
      positions in debt securities and other sources of interest rate exposures including
      derivative instruments are slotted into a maturity ladder comprising thirteen time-
      bands (or fifteen time-bands in case of low coupon instruments). Fixed-rate
      instruments should be allocated according to the residual term to maturity and
      floating-rate instruments according to the residual term to the next repricing
      date. Opposite positions of the same amount in the same issues (but not
      different issues by the same issuer), whether actual or notional, can be omitted
      from the interest rate maturity framework, as well as closely matched swaps,
      forwards, futures and forward rate agreements (FRAs) which meet the conditions
      set out in MAR20.34 and MAR20.35 below.

20.25 The first step in the calculation is to weight the positions in each time-band by a
      factor designed to reflect the price sensitivity of those positions to assumed
      changes in interest rates. The weights for each time-band are set out in Table 2
      below. Zero-coupon bonds and deep-discount bonds (defined as bonds with a
      coupon of less than 3%) should be slotted according to the time-bands set out in
      the second column of Table 2.


        Maturity method: time-bands and weights                                      Table 2


                                                                      Assumed changes in
        Coupon 3% or more    Coupon less than 3%      Risk weight
                                                                            yield

          1 month or less       1 month or less         0.00%                 1.00

           1 to 3 months         1 to 3 months          0.20%                 1.00

           3 to 6 months         3 to 6 months          0.40%                 1.00

          6 to 12 months        6 to 12 months          0.70%                 1.00

            1 to 2 years        1.0 to 1.9 years        1.25%                 0.90

            2 to 3 years        1.9 to 2.8 years        1.75%                 0.80

            3 to 4 years        2.8 to 3.6 years        2.25%                 0.75

            4 to 5 years        3.6 to 4.3 years        2.75%                 0.75

            5 to 7 years        4.3 to 5.7 years        3.25%                 0.70

           7 to 10 years        5.7 to 7.3 years        3.75%                 0.65

           10 to 15 years       7.3 to 9.3 years        4.50%                 0.60

           15 to 20 years      9.3 to 10.6 years        5.25%                 0.60


           Over 20 years        10.6 to 12 years        6.00%                 0.60

                                12 to 20 years          8.00%                 0.60

                                 Over 20 years         12.50%                 0.60



20.26 The next step in the calculation is to offset the weighted longs and shorts in each
      time-band, resulting in a single short or long position for each band. Since,
      however, each band would include different instruments and different maturities,
      a 10% capital requirement to reflect basis risk and gap risk will be levied on the
      smaller of the offsetting positions, be it long or short. Thus, if the sum of the
      weighted longs in a time-band is $100 million and the sum of the weighted
      shorts $90 million, the so-called “vertical disallowance” for that time-band would
      be 10% of $90 million (ie $9.0 million).


20.27 The result of the above calculations is to produce two sets of weighted positions,
      the net long or short positions in each time-band ($10 million long in the
      example above) and the vertical disallowances, which have no sign.

       (1) In addition, however, banks will be allowed to conduct two rounds of
           “horizontal offsetting”:

           (a) first between the net positions in each of three zones, where zone 1 is
               set as zero to one year, zone 2 is set as one year to four years, and zone
               3 is set as four years and over (however, for coupons less than 3%, zone
               2 is set as one year to 3.6 years and zone 3 is set as 3.6 years and over);
               and

           (b) subsequently between the net positions in the three different zones.



     (2) The offsetting will be subject to a scale of disallowances expressed as a
         fraction of the matched positions, as set out in Table 3 below. The weighted
         long and short positions in each of three zones may be offset, subject to the
         matched portion attracting a disallowance factor that is part of the capital
         requirement. The residual net position in each zone may be carried over and
         offset against opposite positions in other zones, subject to a second set of
         disallowance factors.

          Horizontal disallowances                                                Table 3


                                            Within the       Between       Between zones
              Zones7        Time band
                                               zone       adjacent zones      1 and 3

                             0-1 month

              Zone 1        1-3 months         40%

                            3-6 months

                            6-12 months                        40%

                             1-2 years

              Zone 2         2-3 years         30%                             100%

                             3-4 years

                             4-5 years                         40%

                             5-7 years

              Zone 3         7-10 years

                            10-15 years        30%

                            15-20 years

                           Over 20 years


 The zones for coupons less than 3% are 0 to 1 year, 1 to 3.6 years, and
                 3.6 years and over.



20.28 Under the alternative duration method, banks with the necessary capability may,
      with their supervisors’ consent, use a more accurate method of measuring all of

      their general market risk by calculating the price sensitivity of each position
      separately. Banks must elect and use the method on a continuous basis (unless a
      change in method is approved by the national authority) and will be subject to
      supervisory monitoring of the systems used. The mechanics of this method are as
      follows.

      (1) First calculate the price sensitivity of each instrument in terms of a change in
          interest rates of between 0.6 and 1.0 percentage points depending on the
          maturity of the instrument (see Table 4 below).

      (2) Slot the resulting sensitivity measures into a duration-based ladder with the
          fifteen time-bands set out in Table 4.

      (3) Subject long and short positions in each time-band to a 5% vertical
          disallowance designed to capture basis risk.

      (4) Carry forward the net positions in each time-band for horizontal offsetting
          subject to the disallowances set out in Table 3 of MAR20.27 above.

            Duration method: time-bands and assumed changes in yield                  Table 4


                                 Assumed change in   yield                     Assumed change
                                                                        in yield

            Zone 1:                                   Zone 3:

            1 month or less             1.00          3.6 to 4.3 years         0.75

            1 to 3 months               1.00          4.3 to 5.7 years         0.70

            3 to 6 months               1.00          5.7 to 7.3 years         0.65

            6 to 12 months              1.00          7.3 to 9.3 years         0.60

            Zone 2:                                   9.3 to 10.6 years        0.60

            1.0 to 1.9 years            0.90          10.6 to 12 years         0.60

            1.9 to 2.8 years            0.80          12 to 20 years           0.60

            2.8 to 3.6 years            0.75          Over 20 years            0.60



20.29 In the case of residual currencies (see MAR20.23 above) the gross positions in
      each time-band will be subject to either the risk weightings set out in MAR20.25,

       if positions are reported using the maturity method, or the assumed change in
       yield set out in MAR20.28, if positions are reported using the duration method,
       with no further offsets.


Interest rate derivatives

20.30 The measurement system should include all interest rate derivatives and off-
      balance-sheet instruments in the trading book which react to changes in interest
      rates, (eg FRAs, other forward contracts, bond futures, interest rate and cross-
      currency swaps and forward foreign exchange positions). Options can be treated
      in a variety of ways as described in MAR20.73 to MAR20.85 below. A summary of
      the rules for dealing with interest rate derivatives is set out in MAR20.39 below.

20.31 The derivatives should be converted into positions in the relevant underlying and
      become subject to specific and general market risk charges as described above.
      In order to calculate the standard formula described above, the amounts
      reported should be the market value of the principal amount of the underlying or
      of the notional underlying resulting from the prudent valuation guidance set out
      in CAP50.

 For instruments where the apparent notional amount differs from the
                   effective notional amount, banks must use the effective notional
                   amount.


20.32 Futures and forward contracts (including FRAs) are treated as a combination of a
      long and a short position in a notional government security. The maturity of a
      future or a FRA will be the period until delivery or exercise of the contract, plus -
      where applicable - the life of the underlying instrument. For example, a long
      position in a June three-month interest-rate future (taken in April) is to be
      reported as a long position in a government security with a maturity of five
      months and a short position in a government security with a maturity of two
      months. Where a range of deliverable instruments may be delivered to fulfil the
      contract, the bank has flexibility to elect which deliverable security goes into the
      maturity or duration ladder but should take account of any conversion factor
      defined by the exchange. In the case of a future on a corporate bond index,
      positions will be included at the market value of the notional underlying portfolio
      of securities.


20.33
        Swaps will be treated as two notional positions in government securities with
        relevant maturities. For example, an interest rate swap under which a bank is
        receiving floating-rate interest and paying fixed will be treated as a long position
        in a floating-rate instrument of maturity equivalent to the period until the next
        interest fixing and a short position in a fixed-rate instrument of maturity
        equivalent to the residual life of the swap. For swaps that pay or receive a fixed or
        floating interest rate against some other reference price, eg a stock index, the
        interest rate component should be slotted into the appropriate repricing maturity
        category, with the equity component being included in the equity framework. The
        separate legs of cross-currency swaps are to be reported in the relevant maturity
        ladders for the currencies concerned.

20.34 Banks may exclude from the interest rate maturity framework altogether (for both
      specific and general market risk) long and short positions (both actual and
      notional) in identical instruments with exactly the same issuer, coupon, currency
      and maturity. A matched position in a future or forward and its corresponding
      underlying may also be fully offset, and thus excluded from the calculation.
      When the future or the forward comprises a range of deliverable instruments
      offsetting of positions in the future or forward contract and its underlying is only
      permissible in cases where there is a readily identifiable underlying security which
      is most profitable for the trader with a short position to deliver. The price of this
      security, sometimes called the “cheapest-to-deliver”, and the price of the future
      or forward contract should in such cases move in close alignment. No offsetting
      will be allowed between positions in different currencies; the separate legs of
      cross-currency swaps or forward foreign exchange deals are to be treated as
      notional positions in the relevant instruments and included in the appropriate
      calculation for each currency.


  The leg representing the time to expiry of the future should, however,
                    be reported.


20.35 In addition, opposite positions in the same category of instruments can in
      certain circumstances be regarded as matched and allowed to offset fully. To
      qualify for this treatment the positions must relate to the same underlying
      instruments, be of the same nominal value and be denominated in the same
      currency. In addition:

        (1) for futures: offsetting positions in the notional or underlying instruments to
            which the futures contract relates must be for identical products and mature
            within seven days of each other;

       (2) for swaps and FRAs: the reference rate (for floating rate positions) must be
           identical and the coupon closely matched (ie within 15 basis points); and

       (3) for swaps, FRAs and forwards: the next interest fixing date or, for fixed-
           coupon positions or forwards, the residual maturity must correspond within
           the following limits:

            (a) less than one month hence: same day;

            (b) between one month and one year hence: within seven days;

            (c)   over one year hence: within thirty days.
 This includes the delta-equivalent value of options. The delta
                    equivalent of the legs arising out of the treatment of caps and floors as
                    set out in MAR20.77 can also be offset against each other under the
                    rules laid down in this paragraph.

  The separate legs of different swaps may also be “matched” subject to
                    the same conditions.


20.36 Banks with large swap books may use alternative formulae for these swaps to
      calculate the positions to be included in the maturity or duration ladder. One
      method would be to first convert the payments required by the swap into their
      present values. For that purpose, each payment should be discounted using zero
      coupon yields, and a single net figure for the present value of the cash flows
      entered into the appropriate time-band using procedures that apply to zero- (or
      low-) coupon bonds; these figures should be slotted into the general market risk
      framework as set out above. An alternative method would be to calculate the
      sensitivity of the net present value implied by the change in yield used in the
      maturity or duration method and allocate these sensitivities into the time-bands
      set out in MAR20.25 or MAR20.28. Other methods which produce similar results
      could also be used. Such alternative treatments will, however, only be allowed if:

       (1) the supervisory authority is fully satisfied with the accuracy of the systems
           being used;

       (2) the positions calculated fully reflect the sensitivity of the cash flows to
           interest rate changes and are entered into the appropriate time-bands; and

       (3) the positions are denominated in the same currency.



20.37

        Interest rate and currency swaps, FRAs, forward foreign exchange contracts and
        interest rate futures will not be subject to a specific risk charge. This exemption
        also applies to futures on an interest rate index (eg the London Interbank Offered
        Rate, or LIBOR). However, in the case of futures contracts where the underlying is
        a debt security, or an index representing a basket of debt securities, a specific risk
        charge will apply according to the credit risk of the issuer as set out in MAR20.4
        to MAR20.21 above.

20.38 General market risk applies to positions in all derivative products in the same
      manner as for cash positions, subject only to an exemption for fully or very
      closely matched positions in identical instruments as defined in MAR20.34 and
      MAR20.35. The various categories of instruments should be slotted into the
      maturity ladder and treated according to the rules identified earlier.

20.39 Table 5 below presents a summary of the regulatory treatment for interest rate
      derivatives, for market risk purposes.




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                               652/1626
     Summary of treatment of interest rate derivatives                                 Table 5


                                                                         General market risk
                    Instrument                 Specific risk charge12
                                                                               charge

     Exchanged-traded future

               Government debt security                  Yes13          Yes, as two positions

               Corporate debt security                    Yes           Yes, as two positions

               Index on interest rates (eg                No            Yes, as two positions
               LIBOR)

     Over-the-counter (OTC) forward

               Government debt security                  Yes13          Yes, as two positions

               Corporate debt security                    Yes           Yes, as two positions

               Index on interest rates                    No            Yes, as two positions

     FRAs, swaps                                          No            Yes, as two positions

     Forward foreign exchange                             No            Yes, as one position
                                                                        in each currency

     Options                                                            Either

               Government debt security                  Yes13

                                                                        (a) carve out together
                                                                        with the associated
                                                                        hedging positions:
                                                                        simplified approach;
                                                                        scenario analysis;
                                                                        internal models

               Corporate debt security                    Yes           (b) general market
                                                                        risk charge according
               Index on interest rates                    No            to the delta-plus
                                                                        method (gamma and
               FRAs, swaps                                No            vega should receive
                                                                        separate capital
                                                                        requirements)




Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                                 653/1626
       Footnotes
       12          This is the specific risk charge relating to the issuer of the instrument.
                   Under CRE55, a separate capital requirement for the counterparty
                   credit risk applies.

       13          The specific risk capital requirement only applies to government debt
                   securities that are rated below AA- (see MAR20.5 and MAR20.6).



Equity risk
20.40 This section sets out a minimum capital standard to cover the risk of holding or
      taking positions in equities in the trading book. It applies to long and short
      positions in all instruments that exhibit market behaviour similar to equities, but
      not to non-convertible preference shares (which are covered by the interest rate
      risk requirements described in MAR20.2 to MAR20.39). Long and short positions
      in the same issue may be reported on a net basis. The instruments covered
      include common stocks (whether voting or non-voting), convertible securities
      that behave like equities, and commitments to buy or sell equity securities. The
      treatment of derivative products, stock indices and index arbitrage is described in
      MAR20.43 to MAR20.51 below.


Specific and general market risks

20.41 As with debt securities, the minimum capital standard for equities is expressed in
      terms of two separately calculated capital requirements for the “specific risk” of
      holding a long or short position in an individual equity and for the “general
      market risk” of holding a long or short position in the market as a whole. Specific
      risk is defined as the bank’s gross equity positions (ie the sum of all long equity
      positions and of all short equity positions) and general market risk as the
      difference between the sum of the longs and the sum of the shorts (ie the overall
      net position in an equity market).The long or short position in the market must
      be calculated on a market-by-market basis, ie a separate calculation has to be
      carried out for each national market in which the bank holds equities.

20.42 The capital requirement for specific risk and for general market risk will each be
      8%.


Equity derivatives




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                                 654/1626
20.43 Except for options, which are dealt with in MAR20.73 to MAR20.85, equity
      derivatives and off-balance-sheet positions which are affected by changes in
      equity prices should be included in the measurement system.14 This includes
       futures and swaps on both individual equities and on stock indices. The
       derivatives are to be converted into positions in the relevant underlying. The
       treatment of equity derivatives is summarised in MAR20.51 below.


       Footnotes
       14          Where equities are part of a forward contract, a future or an option
                   (quantity of equities to be received or to be delivered), any interest rate
                   or foreign currency exposure from the other leg of the contract should
                   be reported as set out in MAR20.2 to MAR20.39 and MAR20.52 to
                   MAR20.61.


20.44 In order to calculate the standard formula for specific and general market risk,
      positions in derivatives should be converted into notional equity positions:

       (1) Futures and forward contracts relating to individual equities should in
           principle be reported at current market prices;

       (2) Futures relating to stock indices should be reported as the marked-to-
           market value of the notional underlying equity portfolio;

       (3) Equity swaps are to be treated as two notional positions;15

       (4) Equity options and stock index options should be either “carved out”
           together with the associated underlyings or be incorporated in the measure
           of general market risk described in this section according to the delta-plus
           method.


       Footnotes
       15          For example, an equity swap in which a bank is receiving an amount
                   based on the change in value of one particular equity or stock index
                   and paying a different index will be treated as a long position in the
                   former and a short position in the latter. Where one of the legs involves
                   receiving/paying a fixed or floating interest rate, that exposure should
                   be slotted into the appropriate repricing time-band for interest rate
                   related instruments as set out in MAR20.2 to MAR20.39. The stock
                   index should be covered by the equity treatment.




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                                655/1626
20.45

        Matched positions in each identical equity or stock index in each market may be
        fully offset, resulting in a single net short or long position to which the specific
        and general market risk charges will apply. For example, a future in a given equity
        may be offset against an opposite cash position in the same equity.16


        Footnotes
        16          The interest rate risk arising out of the future, however, should be
                    reported as set out in MAR20.2 to MAR20.39.


20.46 Besides general market risk, a further capital requirement of 2% will apply to the
      net long or short position in an index contract comprising a diversified portfolio
      of equities. This capital requirement is intended to cover factors such as
      execution risk. National supervisory authorities will take care to ensure that this
      2% risk weight applies only to well-diversified indices and not, for example, to
      sectoral indices.

20.47 In the case of the futures-related arbitrage strategies described below, the
      additional 2% capital requirement described above (set out in MAR20.46) may be
      applied to only one index with the opposite position exempt from a capital
      requirement. The strategies are:

        (1) when the bank takes an opposite position in exactly the same index at
            different dates or in different market centres; and

        (2) when the bank has an opposite position in contracts at the same date in
            different but similar indices, subject to supervisory oversight that the two
            indices contain sufficient common components to justify offsetting.

20.48 Where a bank engages in a deliberate arbitrage strategy, in which a futures
      contract on a broadly based index matches a basket of stocks, it will be allowed
      to carve out both positions from the standardised methodology on condition that:

        (1) the trade has been deliberately entered into and separately controlled; and

        (2) the composition of the basket of stocks represents at least 90% of the index
            when broken down into its notional components.




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                                656/1626
20.49 In such a case as set out in MAR20.48 the minimum capital requirement will be
      4% (ie 2% of the gross value of the positions on each side) to reflect divergence
      and execution risks. This applies even if all of the stocks comprising the index are
      held in identical proportions. Any excess value of the stocks comprising the
      basket over the value of the futures contract or excess value of the futures

       contract over the value of the basket is to be treated as an open long or short
       position.

20.50 If a bank takes a position in depository receipts against an opposite position in
      the underlying equity or identical equities in different markets, it may offset the
      position (i.e. bear no capital requirement) but only on condition that any costs on
      conversion are fully taken into account.17


       Footnotes
       17            Any foreign exchange risk arising out of these positions has to be
                     reported as set out in MAR20.52 to MAR20.66.


20.51 Table 6 below summarises the regulatory treatment of equity derivatives for
      market risk purposes.

        Summary of treatment of equity derivatives                                            Table 6


                                               Specific risk
                       Instrument                     18                General market risk


        Exchanged-traded or OTC future

                  Individual equity                  Yes       Yes, as underlying

                  Index                              2%        Yes, as underlying

        Options                                                Either

                  Individual equity                  Yes       (a) carve out together with the
                                                               associated hedging positions:
                                                               simplified approach; scenario
                                                               analysis; internal models

                  Index                              2%        (b) general market risk charge
                                                               according to the delta-plus
                                                               method (gamma and vega should
                                                               receive separate capital
                                                               requirements)




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                                       657/1626
       Footnotes
       18          This is the specific risk charge relating to the issuer of the instrument.
                   Under CRE55, a separate capital requirement for the counterparty
                   credit risk applies.



Foreign exchange risk
20.52 This section sets out the standardised approach for measuring the risk of holding
      or taking positions in foreign currencies, including gold.19


       Footnotes
       19          Gold is to be dealt with as a foreign exchange position rather than a
                   commodity because its volatility is more in line with foreign currencies
                   and banks manage it in a similar manner to foreign currencies.


20.53 Two processes are needed to calculate the capital requirement for foreign
      exchange risk.

       (1) The first is to measure the exposure in a single currency position as set out in
           MAR20.54 to MAR20.57.

       (2) The second is to measure the risks inherent in a bank’s mix of long and short
           positions in different currencies as set out in MAR20.58 to MAR20.61.


Measuring the exposure in a single currency

20.54 The bank’s net open position in each currency should be calculated by summing:

       (1) the net spot position (ie all asset items less all liability items, including
           accrued interest, denominated in the currency in question);

       (2) the net forward position (ie all amounts to be received less all amounts to be
           paid under forward foreign exchange transactions, including currency futures
           and the principal on currency swaps not included in the spot position);

       (3) guarantees (and similar instruments) that are certain to be called and are
           likely to be irrecoverable;

       (4) net future income/expenses not yet accrued but already fully hedged (at the
           discretion of the reporting bank);




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                                    658/1626
       (5) depending on particular accounting conventions in different countries, any
           other item representing a profit or loss in foreign currencies; and

       (6) the net delta-based equivalent of the total book of foreign currency options.
            20




       Footnotes
       20          Subject to a separately calculated capital requirement for gamma and
                   vega as described in MAR20.76 to MAR20.79; alternatively, options and
                   their associated underlyings are subject to one of the other methods
                   described in MAR20.73 to MAR20.85.


20.55 Positions in composite currencies need to be separately reported but, for
      measuring banks’ open positions, may be either treated as a currency in their
      own right or split into their component parts on a consistent basis. Positions in
      gold should be measured in the same manner as described in MAR20.67.21


       Footnotes
       21          Where gold is part of a forward contract (quantity of gold to be
                   received or to be delivered), any interest rate or foreign currency
                   exposure from the other leg of the contract should be reported as set
                   out in MAR20.2 to MAR20.39 and MAR20.54 above.


20.56 Interest, other income and expenses should be treated as follows. Interest
      accrued (ie earned but not yet received) should be included as a position.
      Accrued expenses should also be included. Unearned but expected future interest
      and anticipated expenses may be excluded unless the amounts are certain and
      banks have taken the opportunity to hedge them. If banks include future income
      /expenses they should do so on a consistent basis, and not be permitted to select
      only those expected future flows which reduce their position.

20.57 Forward currency and gold positions should be measured as follows. Forward
      currency and gold positions will normally be valued at current spot market
      exchange rates. Using forward exchange rates would be inappropriate since it
      would result in the measured positions reflecting current interest rate differentials
      to some extent. However, banks which base their normal management
      accounting on net present values are expected to use the net present values of
      each position, discounted using current interest rates and valued at current spot
      rates, for measuring their forward currency and gold positions.


Measuring the foreign exchange risk in a portfolio of foreign currency positions
and gold

20.58 For measuring the foreign exchange risk in a portfolio of foreign currency
      positions and gold as set out in MAR20.53(2), a bank that is not approved to use
      internal models by its supervisory authority must use a “shorthand” method
      which treats all currencies equally.

20.59 Under the shorthand method, the nominal amount (or net present value) of the
      net position in each foreign currency and in gold is converted at spot rates into
      the reporting currency.22 The overall net open position is measured by
      aggregating:

       (1) the sum of the net short positions or the sum of the net long positions,
           whichever is the greater;23 plus

       (2) the net position (short or long) in gold, regardless of sign.


       Footnotes
       22          Where the bank is assessing its foreign exchange risk on a consolidated
                   basis, it may be technically impractical in the case of some marginal
                   operations to include the currency positions of a foreign branch or
                   subsidiary of the bank. In such cases the internal limit in each currency
                   may be used as a proxy for the positions. Provided there is adequate ex
                   post monitoring of actual positions against such limits, the limits
                   should be added, without regard to sign, to the net open position in
                   each currency.

       23          An alternative calculation, which produces an identical result, is to
                   include the reporting currency as a residual and to take the sum of all
                   the short (or long) positions.


20.60 The capital requirement will be 8% of the overall net open position (see example
      in Table 7 below). In particular, the capital requirement would be 8% of the
      higher of either the net long currency positions or the net short currency
      positions (ie 300) and of the net position in gold (35) = 335 x 8% = 26.8.

        Example of the shorthand measure of foreign exchange risk                    Table 7


                                  JPY       EUR          GBP        CAD      USD     Gold

                                 +50        +100         +150       -20      -180    -35

        Net position per
        currency

        Net open position                   +300                          -200        35



20.61 A bank of which business in foreign currency is insignificant and which does not
      take foreign exchange positions for its own account may, at the discretion of its
      national authority, be exempted from capital requirements on these positions
      provided that:

       (1) its foreign currency business, defined as the greater of the sum of its gross
           long positions and the sum of its gross short positions in all foreign
           currencies, does not exceed 100% of eligible capital as defined in CAP10.1;
           and

       (2) its overall net open position as defined MAR20.59 above does not exceed
           2% of its eligible capital as defined in CAP10.1.


Commodities risk
20.62 This section sets out the standardised approach for measuring risk of holding or
      taking positions in commodities, including precious metals, but excluding gold
      (which is treated as a foreign currency according to the methodology set out in
      MAR20.52 to MAR20.61 above). A commodity is defined as a physical product
      which is or can be traded on a secondary market, eg agricultural products,
      minerals (including oil) and precious metals.

20.63 The price risk in commodities is often more complex and volatile than that
      associated with currencies and interest rates. Commodity markets may also be
      less liquid than those for interest rates and currencies and, as a result, changes in
      supply and demand can have a more dramatic effect on price and volatility.
      These market characteristics can make price transparency and the effective
      hedging of commodities risk more difficult.



  Banks need also to guard against the risk that arises when the short
                    position falls due before the long position. Owing to a shortage of
                    liquidity in some markets it might be difficult to close the short position
                    and the bank might be squeezed by the market.


20.64 The risks associated with commodities include the following risks:

       (1) For spot or physical trading, the directional risk arising from a change in the
           spot price is the most important risk.

       (2) However, banks using portfolio strategies involving forward and derivative
           contracts are exposed to a variety of additional risks, which may well be
           larger than the risk of a change in spot prices. These include:

            (a) basis risk (the risk that the relationship between the prices of similar
                commodities alters through time);

            (b) interest rate risk (the risk of a change in the cost of carry for forward
                positions and options); and

            (c)   forward gap risk (the risk that the forward price may change for reasons
                  other than a change in interest rates).

       (3) In addition banks may face counterparty credit risk on over-the-counter
           derivatives, but this is captured by one of the methods set out in CRE52 and
           MAR50.

       (4) The funding of commodities positions may well open a bank to interest rate
           or foreign exchange exposure and if that is so the relevant positions should
           be included in the measures of interest rate and foreign exchange risk
           described in MAR20.2 to MAR20.39 and MAR20.52 to MAR20.61, respectively.
           
 Where a commodity is part of a forward contract (quantity of
                   commodities to be received or to be delivered), any interest rate or
                   foreign currency exposure from the other leg of the contract should be
                   reported as set out in MAR20.2 to MAR20.39 and MAR20.52 to MAR20.
                   61. Positions which are purely stock financing (i.e. a physical stock has
                   been sold forward and the cost of funding has been locked in until the
                   date of the forward sale) may be omitted from the commodities risk
                   calculation although they will be subject to interest rate and
                   counterparty risk requirements.


20.65 There are two alternatives for measuring commodities position risk under the
      standardised approach which are described in MAR20.67 to MAR20.72 below.
      Commodities risk can be measured using either the maturity ladder approach,
      which is a measurement system which captures forward gap and interest rate risk
      separately by basing the methodology on seven time-bands as set out in MAR20.
      67 to MAR20.70 below. or the simplified approach, which is a very simple
      framework as set out in MAR20.71 and MAR20.72 below. Both the maturity
      ladder approach and the simplified approach are appropriate only for banks
      which, in relative terms, conduct only a limited amount of commodities business.
      Major traders would be expected to adopt a models approach subject to the
      safeguards set out in MAR30.

20.66 For the maturity ladder approach and the simplified approach, long and short
      positions in each commodity may be reported on a net basis for the purposes of
      calculating open positions. However, positions in different commodities will as a
      general rule not be offsettable in this fashion. Nevertheless, national authorities
      will have discretion to permit netting between different sub-categories of the
      same commodity in cases where the sub-categories are deliverable against each
      other. They can also be considered as offsettable if they are close substitutes
      against each other and a minimum correlation of 0.9 between the price
      movements can be clearly established over a minimum period of one year.
      However, a bank wishing to base its calculation of capital requirements for
      commodities on correlations would have to satisfy the relevant supervisory
      authority of the accuracy of the method which has been chosen and obtain its
      prior approval. Where banks use the models approach they can offset long and
      short positions in different commodities to a degree which is determined by
      empirical correlations, in the same way as a limited degree of offsetting is
      allowed, for instance, between interest rates in different currencies.



 Commodities can be grouped into clans, families, sub-groups and
                   individual commodities. For example, a clan might be Energy
                   Commodities, within which Hydro-Carbons are a family with Crude Oil
                   being a sub-group and West Texas Intermediate, Arabian Light and
                   Brent being individual commodities.



Maturity ladder approach

20.67 In calculating the capital requirements under the maturity ladder approach banks
      will first have to express each commodity position (spot plus forward) in terms of
      the standard unit of measurement (barrels, kilos, grams etc). The net position in
      each commodity will then be converted at current spot rates into the national
      currency.

20.68 Secondly, in order to capture forward gap and interest rate risk within a time-
      band (which, together, are sometimes referred to as curvature/spread risk),
      matched long and short positions in each time-band will carry a capital
      requirement. The methodology is similar to that used for interest-rate-related
      instruments as set out in MAR20.2 to MAR20.39. Positions in the separate
      commodities (expressed in terms of the standard unit of measurement) will first
      be entered into a maturity ladder while physical stocks should be allocated to the
      first time-band. A separate maturity ladder will be used for each commodity as
      defined in MAR20.66 above. For each time-band as set out in the table 10, the
      sum of short and long positions which are matched will be multiplied first by the
      spot price for the commodity, and then by the spread rate of 1.5%.


        Time bands and spread rates                                               Table 8


                            Time band                               Spread rate

                            0-1 month                                  1.5%

                            1-3 months                                 1.5%

                            3-6 months                                 1.5%

                           6-12 months                                 1.5%

                             1-2 years                                 1.5%

                             2-3 years                                 1.5%

                           over 3 years                                1.5%



For markets which have daily delivery dates, any contracts maturing
                   within ten days of one another may be offset.


20.69 The residual net positions from nearer time-bands may then be carried forward
      to offset exposures in time-bands that are further out. However, recognising that
      such hedging of positions among different time-bands is imprecise, a surcharge
      equal to 0.6% of the net position carried forward will be added in respect of each
      time-band that the net position is carried forward. The capital requirement for
      each matched amount created by carrying net positions forward will be
      calculated as in MAR20.68 above. At the end of this process a bank will have
      either only long or only short positions, to which a capital requirement of 15%
      will apply.

20.70 All commodity derivatives and off-balance-sheet positions which are affected by
      changes in commodity prices should be included in this measurement framework.
      This includes commodity futures, commodity swaps and options where the “delta-
      plus” method is used (see MAR20.76 to MAR20.79 below). In order to calculate
      the risk, commodity derivatives should be converted into notional commodities
      positions and assigned to maturities as follows.


       (1) Futures and forward contracts relating to individual commodities should be
           incorporated as notional amounts of the standard unit of measurement
           (barrels, kilos, grams etc) and should be assigned a maturity with reference
           to expiry date.

       (2) Commodity swaps where one leg is a fixed price and the other the current
           market price should be incorporated as a series of positions equal to the
           notional amount of the contract, with one position corresponding with each
           payment on the swap and slotted into the maturity ladder accordingly. The
           positions would be long positions if the bank is paying fixed and receiving
           floating, and short positions if the bank is receiving fixed and paying floating.
            


       (3) Commodity swaps where the legs are in different commodities are to be
           incorporated in the relevant maturity ladder. No offsetting will be allowed in
           this regard except where the commodities belong to the same sub-category
           as defined in MAR20.66 above.


     For banks using other approaches to measure options risk, all options
                   and the associated underlyings should be excluded from both the
                   maturity ladder approach and the simplified approach.

If one of the legs involves receiving/paying a fixed or floating interest
                   rate, that exposure should be slotted into the appropriate repricing
                   maturity band in the maturity ladder covering interest rate related
                   instruments.



Simplified approach

20.71 In calculating the capital requirement for directional risk under the simplified
      approach, the same procedure will be adopted as in the maturity ladder
      approach above (see MAR20.67 and MAR20.70). Once again, all commodity
      derivatives and off-balance sheet positions which are affected by changes in
      commodity prices should be included. The capital requirement will equal 15% of
      the net position, long or short, in each commodity.





20.72 In order to protect the bank against basis risk, interest rate risk and forward gap
      risk under the simplified approach, the capital requirement for each commodity
      as described in MAR20.67 and MAR20.70 above will be subject to an additional
      capital requirement equivalent to 3% of the bank’s gross positions, long plus
      short, in that particular commodity. In valuing the gross positions in commodity
      derivatives for this purpose, banks should use the current spot price.


Treatment of options
20.73 In recognition of the wide diversity of banks’ activities in options and the
      difficulties of measuring price risk for options, two alternative approaches will be
      permissible at the discretion of the national authority under the standardised
      approach.

       (1) Those banks which solely use purchased options can use the simplified
           approach described in MAR20.75 below.

       (2) Those banks which also write options are expected to use the delta-plus
           method or scenario approach which are the intermediate approaches as set
           out in MAR20.76 to MAR20.85. The more significant its trading activity is, the
           more the bank will be expected to use a sophisticated approach, and a bank
           with highly significant trading activity is expected to use the internal models
           approach using a comprehensive risk management model as set out in
           MAR30.

 Unless all their written option positions are hedged by perfectly
                   matched long positions in exactly the same options, in which case no
                   capital requirement for market risk is required.
20.74 In the simplified approach for options, the positions for the options and the
      associated underlying, cash or forward, are not subject to the standardised
      methodology but rather are “carved-out” and subject to separately calculated
      capital requirements that incorporate both general market risk and specific risk.
      The risk numbers thus generated are then added to the capital requirements for
      the relevant category, ie interest-rate-related instruments, equities, foreign
      exchange and commodities as described in MAR20.2 to MAR20.72. The delta-plus
      method uses the sensitivity parameters or “Greek letters” associated with options
      to measure their market risk and capital requirements. Under this method, the
      delta-equivalent position of each option becomes part of the standardised
      methodology set out in MAR20.2 to MAR20.72 with the delta-equivalent amount
      subject to the applicable general market risk charges. Separate capital
      requirements are then applied to the gamma and vega risks of the option
      positions. The scenario approach uses simulation techniques to calculate changes
      in the value of an options portfolio for changes in the level and volatility of its
      associated underlyings. Under this approach, the general market risk charge is
      determined by the scenario “grid” (ie the specified combination of underlying and
      volatility changes) that produces the largest loss. For the delta-plus method and
      the scenario approach the specific risk capital requirements are determined
      separately by multiplying the delta-equivalent of each option by the specific risk
      weights set out in MAR20.2 to MAR20.51.


Simplified approach

20.75 Banks which handle a limited range of purchased options can use the simplified
      approach set out in Table 9 below for particular trades. As an example of how the
      calculation would work, if a holder of 100 shares currently valued at $10 each
      holds an equivalent put option with a strike price of $11, the capital requirement
      would be: $1,000 x 16% (ie 8% specific plus 8% general market risk) = $160, less
      the amount the option is in the money ($11 - $10) x 100 = $100, ie the capital
      requirement would be $60. A similar methodology applies for options whose
      underlying is a foreign currency, an interest rate related instrument or a
      commodity.



      Simplified approach: capital requirements                                           Table 9


                 Position                                      Treatment

         Long cash and long put or
short cash and long call
The capital requirement will be the market value of the underlying security multiplied by the sum of specific and general market risk charges for the underlying less the amount the option is in the money (if any) bounded at zero
Long call or long put
The capital requirement will be the lesser of: (1) the market value of the underlying security multiplied by the sum of specific and general market risk charges for the underlying and (2) the market value of the option



 In some cases such as foreign exchange, it may be unclear which side
                 is the “underlying security”; this should be taken to be the asset which
                 would be received if the option were exercised. In addition the nominal
                 value should be used for items where the market value of the
                 underlying instrument could be zero, eg caps and floors, swaptions.

 Some options (eg where the underlying is an interest rate, a currency
                 or a commodity) bear no specific risk but specific risk will be present in
                 the case of options on certain interest-rate-related instruments (eg
                 options on a corporate debt security or corporate bond index; see
                 MAR20.2 to MAR20.39 for the relevant capital requirements) and for
                 options on equities and stock indices (see MAR20.40 to MAR20.51). The
                 charge under this measure for currency options will be 8% and for
                 options on commodities 15%.

 For options with a residual maturity of more than six months the strike
                 price should be compared with the forward, not current, price. A bank
                 unable to do this must take the in the money amount to be zero.

 Where the position does not fall within the trading book (ie options on
                 certain foreign exchange or commodities positions not belonging to the
                 trading book), it may be acceptable to use the book value instead.


Delta-plus method

20.76 Banks which write options will be allowed to include delta-weighted options
      positions within the standardised methodology set out in MAR20.2 to MAR20.72.
      Such options should be reported as a position equal to the market value of the
      underlying multiplied by the delta. However, since delta does not sufficiently
      cover the risks associated with options positions, banks will also be required to
      measure gamma (which measures the rate of change of delta) and vega (which
      measures the sensitivity of the value of an option with respect to a change in
      volatility) sensitivities in order to calculate the total capital requirement. These
      sensitivities will be calculated according to an approved exchange model or to
      the bank’s proprietary options pricing model subject to oversight by the national
      authority.


  National authorities may wish to require banks doing business in
                   certain classes of exotic options (eg barriers, digitals) or in options at
                   the money that are close to expiry to use either the scenario approach
                   or the internal models alternative, both of which can accommodate
                   more detailed revaluation approaches.


20.77 Delta-weighted positions with debt securities or interest rates as the underlying
      will be slotted into the interest rate time-bands, as set out in MAR20.2 to MAR20.
      39, under the following procedure. A two-legged approach should be used as for
      other derivatives, requiring one entry at the time the underlying contract takes
      effect and a second at the time the underlying contract matures. For instance, a
      bought call option on a June three-month interest-rate future will in April be
      considered, on the basis of its delta-equivalent value, to be a long position with a
      maturity of five months and a short position with a maturity of two months. The
      written option will be similarly slotted as a long position with a maturity of two
      months and a short position with a maturity of five months. Floating-rate
      instruments with caps or floors will be treated as a combination of floating rate
      securities and a series of European-style options. For example, the holder of a
      three-year floating rate bond indexed to six month LIBOR with a cap of 15% will
      treat it as:

       (1) a debt security that reprices in six months; and

       (2) a series of five written call options on a FRA with a reference rate of 15%,
           each with a negative sign at the time the underlying FRA takes effect and a
           positive sign at the time the underlying FRA matures.




A two months call option on a bond future where delivery of the bond
                   takes place in September would be considered in April as being long
                   the bond and short a five months deposit, both positions being delta-
                   weighted.

The rules applying to closely matched positions set out in MAR20.35
                   will also apply in this respect.


20.78 The capital requirement for options with equities as the underlying will also be
      based on the delta-weighted positions which will be incorporated in the measure
      of equity risk described in MAR20.40 to MAR20.51. For purposes of this
      calculation each national market is to be treated as a separate underlying. The
      capital requirement for options on foreign exchange and gold positions will be
      based on the method for foreign exchange rate risk as set out in MAR20.52 to
      MAR20.61. For delta risk, the net delta-based equivalent of the foreign currency
      and gold options will be incorporated into the measurement of the exposure for
      the respective currency (or gold) position. The capital requirement for options on
      commodities will be based on the simplified or the maturity ladder approach for
      commodities risk as set out in MAR20.62 to MAR20.72. The delta-weighted
      positions will be incorporated in one of the measures described in that section.

20.79 In addition to the above capital requirements arising from delta risk, there are
      further capital requirements for gamma and for vega risk. Banks using the delta-
      plus method will be required to calculate the gamma and vega for each option
      position (including hedge positions) separately. The capital requirements should
      be calculated in the following way.

       (1) For each individual option a “gamma impact” should be calculated according
           to a Taylor series expansion as follows, where VU is the variation of the
           underlying of the option.


     (2) VU is calculated as follows:

         (a) for interest rate options if the underlying is a bond, the market value of
             the underlying should be multiplied by the risk weights set out in
             MAR20.25. An equivalent calculation should be carried out where the
             underlying is an interest rate, again based on the assumed changes in
             the corresponding yield in MAR20.25;

         (b) for options on equities and equity indices: the market value of the
             underlying should be multiplied by 8%;

         (c)   for foreign exchange and gold options: the market value of the
               underlying should be multiplied by 8%; and

         (d) for options on commodities: the market value of the underlying should
             be multiplied by 15%.

     (3) For the purpose of this calculation the following positions should be treated
         as the same underlying:

         (a) for interest rates, each time-band as set out in MAR20.25;

         (b) for equities and stock indices, each national market;

         (c)   for foreign currencies and gold, each currency pair and gold;

         (d) for commodities, each individual commodity as defined in MAR20.66.

     (4) Each option on the same underlying will have a gamma impact that is either
         positive or negative. These individual gamma impacts will be summed,
         resulting in a net gamma impact for each underlying that is either positive or
         negative. Only those net gamma impacts that are negative will be included
         in the capital requirement calculation.

     (5) The total gamma risk capital requirement will be the sum of the absolute
         value of the net negative gamma impacts as calculated above.

     (6) For volatility risk, banks will be required to calculate the capital requirements
         by multiplying the sum of the vega risks for all options on the same
         underlying, as defined above, by a proportional shift in volatility of ± 25%.

     (7) The total capital requirement for vega risk will be the sum of the absolute
         value of the individual capital requirements that have been calculated for
         vega risk.


     The basic rules set out here for interest rate and equity options do not
                   attempt to capture specific risk when calculating gamma capital
                   requirements. However, national authorities may wish to require
                   specific banks to do so.

  Positions have to be slotted into separate maturity ladders by currency.

   Banks using the duration method should use the time-bands as set out
                   in MAR20.28.



Scenario approach

20.80 More sophisticated banks may opt to base the market risk capital requirement for
      options portfolios and associated hedging positions on scenario matrix analysis.
      This will be accomplished by specifying a fixed range of changes in the option
      portfolio’s risk factors and calculating changes in the value of the option portfolio
      at various points along this “grid”. For the purpose of calculating the capital
      requirement, the bank will revalue the option portfolio using matrices for
      simultaneous changes in the option’s underlying rate or price and in the volatility
      of that rate or price. A different matrix will be set up for each individual
      underlying as defined in MAR20.79. As an alternative, at the discretion of each
      national authority, banks which are significant traders in options will for interest-
      rate options be permitted to base the calculation on a minimum of six sets of
      time-bands. When using this method, not more than three of the time-bands as
      defined in MAR20.25 and MAR20.28 should be combined into any one set.

20.81 The options and related hedging positions will be evaluated over a specified
      range above and below the current value of the underlying. The range for interest
      rates is consistent with the assumed changes in yield in MAR20.25. Those banks
      using the alternative method for interest rate options set out in MAR20.80 above
      should use, for each set of time-bands, the highest of the assumed changes in
      yield applicable to the group to which the time-bands belong. The other ranges
      are ± 8% for equities, ± 8% for foreign exchange and gold, and ± 15% for
      commodities. For all risk categories, at least seven observations (including the
      current observation) should be used to divide the range into equally spaced
      intervals.



  If, for example, the time-bands 3 to 4 years, 4 to 5 years and 5 to 7
                   years are combined the highest assumed change in yield of these three
                   bands would be 0.75.

 The basic rules set out here for interest rate and equity options do not
                   attempt to capture specific risk when calculating gamma capital
                   requirements. However, national authorities may wish to require
                   specific banks to do so.


20.82 The second dimension of the matrix entails a change in the volatility of the
      underlying rate or price. A single change in the volatility of the underlying rate or
      price equal to a shift in volatility of +25% and -25% is expected to be sufficient in
      most cases. As circumstances warrant, however, the supervisory authority may
      choose to require that a different change in volatility be used and/or that
      intermediate points on the grid be calculated.

20.83 After calculating the matrix each cell contains the net profit or loss of the option
      and the underlying hedge instrument. The capital requirement for each
      underlying will then be calculated as the largest loss contained in the matrix.

20.84 The application of the scenario analysis by any specific bank will be subject to
      supervisory consent, particularly as regards the precise way that the analysis is
      constructed. Banks’ use of scenario analysis as part of the standardised
      methodology will also be subject to validation by the national authority, and to
      those of the qualitative standards listed in MAR30.5 to MAR30.11 which are
      appropriate given the nature of the business.

20.85 Besides the options risks mentioned above, the Committee is conscious of the
      other risks also associated with options, eg rho (rate of change of the value of the
      option with respect to the interest rate) and theta (rate of change of the value of
      the option with respect to time). While not proposing a measurement system for
      those risks at present, it expects banks undertaking significant options business at
      the very least to monitor such risks closely. Additionally, banks will be permitted
      to incorporate rho into their capital calculations for interest rate risk, if they wish
      to do so.



 MAR30
                                 Internal models approach
                                 This chapter sets out minimum requirements for
                                 banks to use internal models to calculate risk-
                                 weighted assets for market risk.


                                General criteria
30.1   The risk-weighted assets for market risk under the internal models approach are
       determined by multiplying the capital requirements calculated as set out in this
       chapter by 12.5.

30.2   The use of an internal model will be conditional upon the explicit approval of the
       bank’s supervisory authority. Home and host country supervisory authorities of
       banks that carry out material trading activities in multiple jurisdictions intend to
       work co-operatively to ensure an efficient approval process. The supervisory
       authority will only give its approval if at a minimum:

       (1) It is satisfied that the bank’s risk management system is conceptually sound
           and is implemented with integrity;

       (2) The bank has in the supervisory authority’s view sufficient numbers of staff
           skilled in the use of sophisticated models not only in the trading area but
           also in the risk control, audit, and if necessary, back office areas;

       (3) The bank’s models have in the supervisory authority’s judgement a proven
           track record of reasonable accuracy in measuring risk;

       (4) The bank regularly conducts stress tests along the lines discussed in MAR30.
           18 to MAR30.25.

30.3   Supervisory authorities will have the right to insist on a period of initial
       monitoring and live testing of a bank’s internal model before it is used for
       supervisory capital purposes.

30.4   In addition to these general criteria, banks using internal models for capital
       purposes will be subject to the requirements detailed in MAR30.5 to MAR30.71.


Qualitative standards
30.5   It is important that supervisory authorities are able to assure themselves that
       banks using models have market risk management systems that are conceptually
       sound and implemented with integrity. Accordingly, the supervisory authority will
       specify a number of qualitative criteria that banks would have to meet before
       they are permitted to use a models-based approach. The extent to which banks
       meet the qualitative criteria may influence the level at which supervisory
       authorities will set the multiplication factor referred to in MAR30.16. Only those
       banks whose models are in full compliance with the qualitative criteria will be
       eligible for application of the minimum multiplication factor. The qualitative
       criteria include:


     (1) The bank should have an independent risk control unit that is responsible for
         the design and implementation of the bank’s risk management system. The
         unit should produce and analyse daily reports on the output of the bank’s
         risk measurement model, including an evaluation of the relationship
         between measures of risk exposure and trading limits. This unit must be
         independent from business trading units and should report directly to senior
         management of the bank.

     (2) The unit should conduct a regular back-testing programme, ie an ex-post
         comparison of the risk measure generated by the model against actual daily
         changes in portfolio value over longer periods of time, as well as
         hypothetical changes based on static positions.

     (3) The unit should also conduct the initial and on-going validation of the
         internal model.

     (4) Board of directors and senior management should be actively involved in the
         risk control process and must regard risk control as an essential aspect of the
         business to which significant resources need to be devoted. In this regard,
         the daily reports prepared by the independent risk control unit must be
         reviewed by a level of management with sufficient seniority and authority to
         enforce both reductions of positions taken by individual traders and
         reductions in the bank’s overall risk exposure.

     (5) The bank’s internal risk measurement model must be closely integrated into
         the day-to-day risk management process of the bank. Its output should
         accordingly be an integral part of the process of planning, monitoring and
         controlling the bank’s market risk profile.

     (6) The risk measurement system should be used in conjunction with internal
         trading and exposure limits. In this regard, trading limits should be related to
         the bank’s risk measurement model in a manner that is consistent over time
         and that is well understood by both traders and senior management.

     (7) A routine and rigorous programme of stress testing should be in place as a
         supplement to the risk analysis based on the day-to-day output of the bank’
         s risk measurement model. The results of stress testing should be reviewed
         periodically by senior management, used in the internal assessment of
         capital adequacy, and reflected in the policies and limits set by management
         and the board of directors. Where stress tests reveal particular vulnerability
         to a given set of circumstances, prompt steps should be taken to manage
         those risks appropriately (eg by hedging against that outcome or reducing
         the size of the bank’s exposures, or increasing capital).



     (8) Banks should have a routine in place for ensuring compliance with a
         documented set of internal policies, controls and procedures concerning the
         operation of the risk measurement system. The bank’s risk measurement
         system must be well documented, for example, through a risk management
         manual that describes the basic principles of the risk management system
         and that provides an explanation of the empirical techniques used to
         measure market risk.

     (9) An independent review of the risk measurement system should be carried
         out regularly in the bank’s own internal auditing process. This review should
         include both the activities of the business trading units and of the
         independent risk control unit. A review of the overall risk management
         process should take place at regular intervals (ideally not less than once a
         year) and should specifically address, at a minimum:

         (a) The adequacy of the documentation of the risk management system
             and process;

         (b) The organisation of the risk control unit;

         (c)   The integration of market risk measures into daily risk management;

         (d) The approval process for risk pricing models and valuation systems used
             by front and back-office personnel;

         (e) The validation of any significant change in the risk measurement
             process;

         (f)   The scope of market risks captured by the risk measurement model;

         (g) The integrity of the management information system;

         (h) The accuracy and completeness of position data;

         (i)   The verification of the consistency, timeliness and reliability of data
               sources used to run internal models, including the independence of
               such data sources;

         (j)   The accuracy and appropriateness of volatility and correlation
               assumptions;

         (k) The accuracy of valuation and risk transformation calculations;

         (l)   The verification of the model’s accuracy through frequent back-testing
               as described in MAR30.5(2) and in MAR99.




Further guidance regarding the standards that supervisory authorities
                   will expect can be found in MAR30.27.

Though banks will have some discretion as to how they conduct stress
                   tests, their supervisory authorities will wish to see that they follow the
                   general lines set out in MAR30.18 to MAR30.25.



Specification of market risk factors
30.6   An important part of a bank’s internal market risk measurement system is the
       specification of an appropriate set of market risk factors, ie the market rates and
       prices that affect the value of the bank’s trading positions. The risk factors
       contained in a market risk measurement system should be sufficient to capture
       the risks inherent in the bank’s portfolio of on- and off-balance sheet trading
       positions. Although banks will have some discretion in specifying the risk factors
       for their internal models, the following guidelines should be fulfilled.

30.7   Factors that are deemed relevant for pricing should be included as risk factors in
       the value-at-risk model. Where a risk factor is incorporated in a pricing model but
       not in the value-at-risk model, the bank must justify this omission to the
       satisfaction of its supervisor. In addition, the value-at-risk model must capture
       nonlinearities for options and other relevant products (eg mortgage-backed
       securities, tranched exposures or n-th-to-default credit derivatives), as well as
       correlation risk and basis risk (eg between credit default swaps and bonds).
       Moreover, the supervisor has to be satisfied that proxies are used which show a
       good track record for the actual position held (ie an equity index for a position in
       an individual stock).


       FAQ
       FAQ1        The reference to mortgage-backed securities in MAR30.7 suggests they
                   can remain within an internal models based approach and in value-at-
                   risk (VaR, the internal models approach); however, MAR10.16 indicates
                   that the standardised measurement method should be used for all
                   securitised products except for certain correlation trading activities for
                   which a comprehensive risk capital requirement can be calculated. Can
                   non-correlation trading securitisations be incorporated in an internal
                   models approach?

                   Securitisations which are not part of the correlation trading portfolio
                   are subject to a general market risk capital requirement and the
                   standardised capital requirement for specific risk. These positions must
                   be included in the bank’s VaR model for general market risk or be
                   subject to the standardised approach capital requirement for general
                   market risk. While the positions may be included in the bank’s internal
                   specific risk model, the specific risk capital requirement for
                   securitisations according to the standardised approach will apply as
                   well.


30.8   For interest rates, there must be a set of risk factors corresponding to interest
       rates in each currency in which the bank has interest-rate-sensitive on- or off-
       balance sheet positions.

       (1) The risk measurement system should model the yield curve using one of a
           number of generally accepted approaches, for example, by estimating
           forward rates of zero coupon yields. The yield curve should be divided into
           various maturity segments in order to capture variation in the volatility of
           rates along the yield curve; there will typically be one risk factor
           corresponding to each maturity segment. For material exposures to interest
           rate movements in the major currencies and markets, banks must model the
           yield curve using a minimum of six risk factors. However, the number of risk
           factors used should ultimately be driven by the nature of the bank’s trading
           strategies. For instance, a bank with a portfolio of various types of securities
           across many points of the yield curve and that engages in complex arbitrage
           strategies would require a greater number of risk factors to capture interest
           rate risk accurately.



       (2) The risk measurement system must incorporate separate risk factors to
           capture spread risk (eg between bonds and swaps). A variety of approaches
           may be used to capture the spread risk arising from less than perfectly
           correlated movements between government and other fixed-income interest
           rates, such as specifying a completely separate yield curve for non-
           government fixed-income instruments (for instance, swaps or municipal
           securities) or estimating the spread over government rates at various points
           along the yield curve.

30.9   For exchange rates (which may include gold), the risk measurement system
       should incorporate risk factors corresponding to the individual foreign currencies
       in which the bank’s positions are denominated. Since the value-at-risk figure
       calculated by the risk measurement system will be expressed in the bank’s
       domestic currency, any net position denominated in a foreign currency will
       introduce a foreign exchange risk. Thus, there must be risk factors corresponding
       to the exchange rate between the domestic currency and each foreign currency in
       which the bank has a significant exposure.

30.10 For equity prices, there should be risk factors corresponding to each of the equity
      markets in which the bank holds significant positions:

       (1) At a minimum, there should be a risk factor that is designed to capture
           market-wide movements in equity prices (eg a market index). Positions in
           individual securities or in sector indices could be expressed in “beta-
           equivalents” relative to this market-wide index;

       (2) A somewhat more detailed approach would be to have risk factors
           corresponding to various sectors of the overall equity market (for instance,
           industry sectors or cyclical and non-cyclical sectors). As above, positions in
           individual stocks within each sector could be expressed in beta-equivalents
           relative to the sector index;

       (3) The most extensive approach would be to have risk factors corresponding to
           the volatility of individual equity issues.

       (4) The sophistication and nature of the modelling technique for a given market
           should correspond to the bank’s exposure to the overall market as well as its
           concentration in individual equity issues in that market.




A “beta-equivalent” position would be calculated from a market model
                   of equity price returns (such as the capital asset pricing model) by
                   regressing the return on the individual stock or sector index on the risk-
                   free rate of return and the return on the market index.


30.11 For commodity prices, there should be risk factors corresponding to each of the
      commodity markets in which the bank holds significant positions (also see
      MAR20.70):

       (1) For banks with relatively limited positions in commodity-based instruments,
           a straightforward specification of risk factors would be acceptable. Such a
           specification would likely entail one risk factor for each commodity price to
           which the bank is exposed. In cases where the aggregate positions are quite
           small, it might be acceptable to use a single risk factor for a relatively broad
           sub-category of commodities (for instance, a single risk factor for all types of
           oil);

       (2) For more active trading, the model must also take account of variation in the
           “convenience yield” between derivatives positions such as forwards and
           swaps and cash positions in the commodity.

The convenience yield reflects the benefits from direct ownership of the
                   physical commodity (for example, the ability to profit from temporary
                   market shortages), and is affected both by market conditions and by
                   factors such as physical storage costs.


30.12 It is essential that the methodology used for commodities risk encompasses:

       (1) Directional risk, to capture the exposure from changes in spot prices arising
           from net open positions;

       (2) Forward gap and interest rate risk, to capture the exposure to changes in
           forward prices arising from maturity mismatches; and

       (3) Basis risk, to capture the exposure to changes in the price relationships
           between two similar, but not identical, commodities.

30.13 It is also particularly important that such models take proper account of market
      characteristics - notably delivery dates and the scope provided to traders to close
      out positions.



Quantitative standards: value-at-risk (VaR) and stressed value-at-risk
(sVaR)
30.14 Banks will have flexibility in devising the precise nature of their models, but the
      following minimum standards will apply for the purpose of calculating their
      capital requirement. Individual banks or their supervisory authorities will have
      discretion to apply stricter standards.

       (1) “Value-at-risk” must be computed on a daily basis.

       (2) In calculating the value-at-risk, a 99th percentile, one-tailed confidence
           interval is to be used.

       (3) In calculating value-at-risk, an instantaneous price shock equivalent to a 10
           day movement in prices is to be used, ie the minimum “holding period” will
           be ten trading days. Banks may use value-at-risk numbers calculated
           according to shorter holding periods scaled up to ten days by, for example,
           the square root of time (for the treatment of options, also see MAR30.14(8)).
           A bank using this approach must periodically justify the reasonableness of its
           approach to the satisfaction of its supervisor.

       (4) The choice of historical observation period (sample period) for calculating
           value-at-risk will be constrained to a minimum length of one year. For banks
           that use a weighting scheme or other methods for the historical observation
           period, the “effective” observation period must be at least one year (that is,
           the weighted average time lag of the individual observations cannot be less
           than 6 months).

       (5) Banks must update their data sets no less frequently than once every month
           and also reassess them whenever market prices are subject to material
           changes. This updating process must be flexible enough to allow for more
           frequent updates. The supervisory authority may also require a bank to
           calculate its value-at-risk using a shorter observation period if, in the
           supervisor’s judgement, this is justified by a significant upsurge in price
           volatility.

       (6) No particular type of model is prescribed. So long as each model used
           captures all the material risks run by the bank, as set out in MAR30.6 to
           MAR30.11, banks will be free to use models based, for example, on variance-
           covariance matrices, historical simulations, or Monte Carlo simulations.


     (7) Banks will have discretion to recognise empirical correlations within broad
         risk categories (eg interest rates, exchange rates, equity prices and
         commodity prices, including related options volatilities in each risk factor
         category). The supervisory authority may also recognise empirical
         correlations across broad risk factor categories, provided that the supervisory
         authority is satisfied that the bank’s system for measuring correlations is
         sound and implemented with integrity.

     (8) Banks’ models must accurately capture the unique risks associated with
         options within each of the broad risk categories. The following criteria apply
         to the measurement of options risk:

         (a) Banks’ models must capture the non-linear price characteristics of
             options positions;

         (b) Banks are expected to ultimately move towards the application of a full
             10 day price shock to options positions or positions that display option-
             like characteristics. In the interim, national authorities may require banks
             to adjust their capital measure for options risk through other methods,
             eg periodic simulations or stress testing;

         (c)   Each bank’s risk measurement system must have a set of risk factors
               that captures the volatilities of the rates and prices underlying option
               positions, ie vega risk. Banks with relatively large and/or complex
               options portfolios should have detailed specifications of the relevant
               volatilities. This means that banks should measure the volatilities of
               options positions broken down by different maturities.

     (9) In addition, a bank must calculate a stressed value-at-risk (sVaR) measure.
         This measure is intended to replicate a value-at-risk calculation that would
         be generated on the bank’s current portfolio if the relevant market factors
         were experiencing a period of stress; and should therefore be based on the
         10-day, 99th percentile, one-tailed confidence interval value-at-risk measure
         of the current portfolio, with model inputs calibrated to historical data from
         a continuous 12-month period of significant financial stress relevant to the
         bank’s portfolio. The period used must be approved by the supervisor and
         regularly reviewed. As an example, for many portfolios, a 12-month period
         relating to significant losses in 2007/2008 would adequately reflect a period
         of such stress; although other periods relevant to the current portfolio must
         be considered by the bank.


     (10) As no particular model is prescribed under MAR30.14(6), different
          techniques might need to be used to translate the model used for value-at-
          risk into one that delivers a stressed value-at-risk. For example, banks
          should consider applying anti-thetic data, or applying absolute rather than

            relative volatilities to deliver an appropriate stressed value-at-risk. The
            stressed value-at-risk should be calculated at least weekly.


   A bank may calculate the value-at-risk estimate using a weighting
                  scheme that is not fully consistent with MAR30.14(4) as long as that
                  method results in a capital requirement at least as conservative as that
                  calculated according to MAR30.14(4).

   Firms should consider modelling valuation changes that are based on
                  the magnitude of historic price movements, applied in both directions –
                  irrespective of the direction of the historic movement.


     FAQ
     FAQ1         Does the sVaR apply to all risks included in the VaR model, or only to
                  the general market risk component of that model?

                  The sVaR applies to all risks (eg general interest rate risk; specific
                  interest rate risk; commodity risk) for which the bank in question has
                  approval from its supervisor to use an internal VaR model.

     FAQ2         Should the sVaR period be fixed (or stable) and the sVaR only respond
                  to changes in the composition of the portfolio, or may the sVaR also
                  adjust to changes in risk factors (and if so, how much)?

                  The intention of the sVaR requirement is to deliver the charge that the
                  bank’s current VaR model would generate if the bank was experiencing
                  a period of financial stress relevant to its portfolio. Therefore, the time-
                  series data upon which the sVaR is calculated should be stable.
                  However, the period used must be regularly reviewed by the bank and
                  approved by the supervisor to ensure that it still represents a period of
                  significant financial stress relevant to the bank’s portfolio.

                  Also, to the extent that time series’ data are used in the factor
                  assessments, then these will also be fixed as a result of fixing the time
                  series’ data. However, to the extent that a bank changes its VaR engine,
                  or risk factor approach, then these changes should be reflected in
                  changes to the model used to calculate the sVaR measure.



     FAQ3      Does “using a weighting scheme that is not fully consistent with
               MAR30.14(4) include various methods to render the VaR model more
               reactive to market changes like, for example, models with time-
               dependent volatilities which use a period of less than a year to
               calibrate current volatility?

               Yes.

     FAQ4      If a bank opts for such a weighting scheme as in MAR30.14 FAQ3,
               should it then use the same reactive scheme also for sVaR?

               No. The weighting scheme should not be used for sVaR.

     FAQ5      MAR30.14(9) requires “a continuous 12-month period of significant
               financial stress”. Would this mean that supervisors exclude any period
               that would be less than 12 months even if particularly relevant to the
               portfolios and extremely stressful? Or are supervisors targeting a
               continuous 12-month period that includes a significant financial stress
               event (the latter lasting possibly less than 12 months)?

               The latter – supervisors are targeting a 12-month period that includes
               an appropriate financial stress.

     FAQ6      What exactly is meant by “anti-thetic” and “applying absolute rather
               than relative volatilities” in MAR30.14(10)? In the latter case, what is
               the reference period for determining whether the data is absolute or
               relative?

               Anti-thetic in this context means that price movements are considered
               relevant irrespective of their direction. For example, if a time series
               included a significant upward spike in equity prices, the model could
               apply significant movements in equity prices both upwards and
               downwards. This might be particularly relevant if a bank’s portfolio is
               the “right way” to a period of financial stress (ie is long equities in a
               period of stock market surge); the model used should reflect that open
               risk positions (in either direction) are vulnerable to stressed variables.

     FAQ7      If a bank should decide to use anti-thetic data to deliver the sVaR,
               should it also use it to select the stressed period? That might make
               selecting the stressed period considerably more difficult because of the
               many possible combinations of the risk factors.

               No, see MAR30.14 FAQ8 below.

     FAQ8


               Regarding MAR30.14 FAQ6 and MAR30.14 FAQ7, does this mean that
               banks in calculating sVaR, given the time period of one year (250
               observations), have to consider an additional 250 observations by
               changing the sign of the risk factor movements?

               The sVaR charge is intended to deliver a capital requirement based on
               a measure of VaR that would be applicable to the bank’s current
               portfolio in a period of stress relevant to that portfolio. In principle, the
               easiest way to do this is to run the current VaR model based on
               historical data from a period of financial stress. However, there are two
               particular cases where this might be inappropriate:

               - If a period of financial stress (which may be indicated by
                 significantly higher volatilities) corresponds to directional moves
                 which would lead to the bank making money, based on the current
                 portfolio. In these circumstances, it might be appropriate to apply
                 the risk factor movements in both the direction which is indicated
                 by the historical data, and the opposite direction (anti-thetic) to
                 ensure that the period of high volatility becomes more relevant to
                 the bank’s portfolio.

               - In stressed periods, there are some price factors (eg credit spreads)
                 which tend to have higher absolute values. Therefore, an increase in
                 absolute volatility in these factors (ie large movements) might not
                 correspond to significant increases in relative volatility (ie because
                 the absolute level of the parameter is also higher). If the bank’s
                 current VaR model tracks relative shifts in these price factors, then
                 the relevant period of stress applied in benign periods (ie when the
                 absolute values of credit spreads are smaller) might not deliver a
                 VaR measure which accurately reflects what the VaR would be in a
                 period of stress. The bank should therefore consider modifying its
                 VaR model to account for large absolute factor moves that can
                 occur in times of stress.

               This does not mean that the bank needs to look at a different 250-day
               period or an additional 250-day period by changing the sign of risk
               factor movements, but that it needs to think intelligently about how it
               translates the data from a 250-day period of stress into a sVaR
               measure.

     FAQ9      Is the sVaR also subject to a “use-test”?



                  Yes, the VaR engine used to generate sVaR is subject to a use-test
                  through the use of the current VaR calculated using the same engine.
                  However, it may be that the sVaR output is not used in the day-to-day
                  risk management decisions, because a different VaR measure is used.


       FAQ10      Taking into account that both migration and default risks have to be
                  captured in the incremental risk capital requirement, is it necessary to
                  still model default and migration in VaR and sVaR?

                  Not necessarily.

                  MAR30 footnote 7 states that, for specific risk modelling, banks need
                  not capture default and migration risks for positions subject to the
                  incremental risk capital requirement referred to in MAR30.33 and
                  MAR30.34. This is also the case for sVaR, since VaR and sVaR
                  methodologies should be aligned.

                  At the same time specific risk for credit spread models are meant to
                  capture idiosyncratic risk in terms of credit spreads. Specific risk models
                  can include spread jumps and may therefore include rating migrations.
                  The same applies to VaR and sVaR though the impact in sVaR may be
                  greater than in VaR.


30.15 A bank must meet, on a daily basis, a capital requirement calculated based on the
      value-at-risk measure and stressed value-at-risk measure (c) as follows, where the
      formula is expressed as the sum of:

       (1) The higher of:

           (a) its previous day's value-at-risk number measured according to the
               parameters specified in this chapter (VARt-1) and

           (b) an average of the daily value-at-risk measures on each of the preceding
               sixty business days (VARavg), multiplied by a multiplication factor (mc);
                plus




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                              688/1626
       (2) The higher of:

           (a) its latest available stressed-value-at-risk number calculated according to
               MAR30.15(1)(a) (sVaRt-1) and




           (b) an average of the stressed value-at-risk numbers calculated according
               to MAR30.15(1)(b) over the preceding sixty business days (sVaRavg),
                multiplied by a multiplication factor (ms).




30.16 The multiplication factors mc­­ and m­s­ in MAR30.15 will be set by individual
       supervisory authorities on the basis of their assessment of the quality of the bank’
       s risk management system, subject to an absolute minimum of 3 for mc­­ and an
       absolute minimum of 3 for m­s­. Banks will be required to add to these factors a
       “plus” directly related to the ex-post performance of the model, thereby
       introducing a built-in positive incentive to maintain the predictive quality of the
       model. The plus will range from 0 to 1 based on the outcome of the
       “backtesting”. The backtesting results applicable for calculating the plus are
       based on value-at-risk only and not stressed value-at-risk. If the backtesting
       results are satisfactory and the bank meets all of the qualitative standards set out
       in MAR30.5, the plus factor could be zero. MAR99 presents in detail the approach
       to be applied for backtesting and the plus factor. Supervisors will have national
       discretion to require banks to perform backtesting on either hypothetical (ie
       using changes in portfolio value that would occur were end-of-day positions to
       remain unchanged), or actual trading (ie excluding fees, commissions, and net
       interest income) outcomes, or both.

30.17 Banks using models will also be subject to a capital charge to cover specific risk
      (as defined in MAR20) of interest rate related instruments and equity securities.
      The manner in which the specific risk capital requirement is to be calculated
      under the internal models approach is set out in MAR10.15 to MAR10.18 and
      MAR30.28 to MAR30.43.


Stress testing
30.18 Banks that use the internal models approach for meeting market risk capital
      requirements must have in place a rigorous and comprehensive stress testing
      program. Stress testing to identify events or influences that could greatly impact
      banks is a key component of a bank’s assessment of its capital position.

30.19 Banks’ stress scenarios need to cover a range of factors that can create
      extraordinary losses or gains in trading portfolios, or make the control of risk in
      those portfolios very difficult. These factors include low-probability events in all
      major types of risks, including the various components of market, credit, and
      operational risks. Stress scenarios need to shed light on the impact of such events
      on positions that display both linear and nonlinear price characteristics (ie
      options and instruments that have options-like characteristics).

30.20 Banks’ stress tests should be both of a quantitative and qualitative nature,
      incorporating both market risk and liquidity aspects of market disturbances.
      Quantitative criteria should identify plausible stress scenarios to which banks
      could be exposed. Qualitative criteria should emphasise that two major goals of
      stress testing are to evaluate the capacity of the bank’s capital to absorb potential
      large losses and to identify steps the bank can take to reduce its risk and
      conserve capital. This assessment is integral to setting and evaluating the bank’s
      management strategy and the results of stress testing should be routinely
      communicated to senior management and, periodically, to the bank’s board of
      directors.

30.21 Banks should combine the use of supervisory stress scenarios with stress tests
      developed by banks themselves to reflect their specific risk characteristics.
      Specifically, supervisory authorities may ask banks to provide information on
      stress testing in three broad areas, which are discussed in MAR30.22 to MAR30.25.

30.22 Supervisory scenarios requiring no simulations by the bank: banks should have
      information on the largest losses experienced during the reporting period
      available for supervisory review. This loss information could be compared to the
      level of capital that results from a bank’s internal measurement system. For
      example, it could provide supervisory authorities with a picture of how many days
      of peak day losses would have been covered by a given value-at-risk estimate.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        For the scenarios requiring no simulation from banks, MAR30.22
                   specifies that the loss information could be compared to the level of
                   capital that results from a bank’s internal measurement system. It
                   should be specified whether this is only valid for the VaR component of
                   the capital requirement or for all components of the capital
                   requirement (VaR, sVaR, incremental risk capital requirement and
                   Comprehensive risk measure).

                   This paragraph is for supervisory use and could be used in a number of
                   different ways, depending upon the data requested by the relevant
                   supervisor. Supervisors would expect that the most relevant use would
                   be a comparison of losses to the overall capital requirement, but that
                   does not preclude individual supervisors asking for information in
                   different forms.


30.23 Scenarios requiring a simulation by the bank: banks should subject their
      portfolios to a series of simulated stress scenarios and provide supervisory
      authorities with the results. These scenarios could include testing the current
      portfolio against past periods of significant disturbance, for example, the 1987
      equity crash, the Exchange Rate Mechanism crises of 1992 and 1993, the fall in
      bond markets in the first quarter of 1994, the 1998 Russian financial crisis, the
      2000 bursting of the technology stock bubble or the 2007/2008 sub-prime crisis,
      incorporating both the large price movements and the sharp reduction in
      liquidity associated with these events. A second type of scenario would evaluate
      the sensitivity of the bank’s market risk exposure to changes in the assumptions
      about volatilities and correlations. Applying this test would require an evaluation
      of the historical range of variation for volatilities and correlations and evaluation
      of the bank’s current positions against the extreme values of the historical range.
      Due consideration should be given to the sharp variation that at times has
      occurred in a matter of days in periods of significant market disturbance. For
      example, the above-mentioned situations involved correlations within risk factors
      approaching the extreme values of 1 or -1 for several days at the height of the
      disturbance.

30.24 Scenarios developed by the bank itself to capture the specific characteristics of its
      portfolio: in addition to the scenarios prescribed by supervisory authorities under
      MAR30.22 and MAR30.23, a bank should also develop its own stress tests which it
      identifies as most adverse based on the characteristics of its portfolio (eg
      problems in a key region of the world combined with a sharp move in oil prices).
      Banks should provide supervisory authorities with a description of the
      methodology used to identify and carry out the scenarios as well as with a
      description of the results derived from these scenarios.


30.25 The results should be reviewed periodically by senior management and should be
      reflected in the policies and limits set by management and the board of directors.
      Moreover, if the testing reveals particular vulnerability to a given set of
      circumstances, the national authorities would expect the bank to take prompt
      steps to manage those risks appropriately (eg by hedging against that outcome
      or reducing the size of its exposures).


External validation
30.26 The validation of models’ accuracy by external auditors and/or supervisory
      authorities should at a minimum include the following steps:

       (1) Verifying that the internal validation processes described in MAR30.5(9) are
           operating in a satisfactory manner;

       (2) Ensuring that the formulae used in the calculation process as well as for the
           pricing of options and other complex instruments are validated by a
           qualified unit, which in all cases should be independent from the trading area;

       (3) Checking that the structure of internal models is adequate with respect to
           the bank’s activities and geographical coverage;

       (4) Checking the results of the banks’ back-testing of its internal measurement
           system (ie comparing value-at-risk estimates with actual profits and losses)
           to ensure that the model provides a reliable measure of potential losses over
           time. This means that banks should make the results as well as the
           underlying inputs to their value-at-risk calculations available to their
           supervisory authorities and/or external auditors on request;

       (5) Making sure that data flows and processes associated with the risk
           measurement system are transparent and accessible. In particular, it is
           necessary that auditors or supervisory authorities are in a position to have
           easy access, whenever they judge it necessary and under appropriate
           procedures, to the models’ specifications and parameters.



Model validation standards
30.27 It is important that banks have processes in place to ensure that their internal
      models have been adequately validated by suitably qualified parties independent
      of the development process to ensure that they are conceptually sound and
      adequately capture all material risks. This validation should be conducted when
      the model is initially developed and when any significant changes are made to
      the model. The validation should also be conducted on a periodic basis but
      especially where there have been any significant structural changes in the market
      or changes to the composition of the portfolio which might lead to the model no
      longer being adequate. More extensive model validation is particularly important
      where specific risk is also modelled and is required to meet the further specific
      risk criteria. As techniques and best practices evolve, banks should avail
      themselves of these advances. Model validation should not be limited to
      backtesting, but should, at a minimum, also include the following:

       (1) Tests to demonstrate that any assumptions made within the internal model
           are appropriate and do not underestimate risk. This may include the
           assumption of the normal distribution, the use of the square root of time to
           scale from a one day holding period to a 10 day holding period or where
           extrapolation or interpolation techniques are used, or pricing models;

       (2) Further to the regulatory backtesting programmes, testing for model
           validation must use hypothetical changes in portfolio value that would occur
           were end-of-day positions to remain unchanged. It therefore excludes fees,
           commissions, bid-ask spreads, net interest income and intra-day trading.
           Moreover, additional tests are required which may include, for instance:

           (a) Testing carried out for longer periods than required for the regular
               backtesting programme (eg 3 years). The longer time period generally
               improves the power of the backtesting. A longer time period may not
               be desirable if the VaR model or market conditions have changed to the
               extent that historical data is no longer relevant;

           (b) Testing carried out using confidence intervals other than the 99 percent
               interval required under the quantitative standards;

           (c)   Testing of portfolios below the overall bank level;



       (3) The use of hypothetical portfolios to ensure that the model is able to
           account for particular structural features that may arise, for example:

            (a) Where data histories for a particular instrument do not meet the
                quantitative standards in MAR30.14 to MAR30.17 and where the bank
                has to map these positions to proxies, then the bank must ensure that

                  the proxies produce conservative results under relevant market
                  scenarios;

            (b) Ensuring that material basis risks are adequately captured. This may
                include mismatches between long and short positions by maturity or by
                issuer;

            (c)   Ensuring that the model captures concentration risk that may arise in an
                  undiversified portfolio.


Treatment of specific risk
30.28 The criteria for supervisory recognition of banks’ modelling of specific risk require
      that a bank’s model must capture all material components of price risk and be
      responsive to changes in market conditions and compositions of portfolios. In
      particular, the model must:

       (1) explain the historical price variation in the portfolio;

       (2) capture concentrations (magnitude and changes in composition);

       (3) be robust to an adverse environment;

       (4) capture name-related basis risk;

       (5) capture event risk;

       (6) be validated through backtesting.

Banks need not capture default and migration risks for positions
                 subject to the incremental risk capital requirement referred to in
                 MAR30.33 and MAR30.34.

 The key ex ante measures of model quality are “goodness-of-fit”
                 measures which address the question of how much of the historical
                 variation in price value is explained by the risk factors included within
                 the model. One measure of this type which can often be used is an R-
                 squared measure from regression methodology. If this measure is to be
                 used, the risk factors included in the bank’s model would be expected
                 to be able to explain a high percentage, such as 90%, of the historical
                 price variation or the model should explicitly include estimates of the
                 residual variability not captured in the factors included in this
                 regression. For some types of models, it may not be feasible to
                 calculate a goodness-of-fit measure. In such instance, a bank is
                 expected to work with its national supervisor to define an acceptable
                 alternative measure which would meet this regulatory objective.

The bank would be expected to demonstrate that the model is sensitive
                 to changes in portfolio construction and that higher capital
                 requirements are attracted for portfolios that have increasing
                 concentrations in particular names or sectors.
 The bank should be able to demonstrate that the model will signal
                 rising risk in an adverse environment. This could be achieved by
                 incorporating in the historical estimation period of the model at least
                 one full credit cycle and ensuring that the model would not have been
                 inaccurate in the downward portion of the cycle. Another approach for
                 demonstrating this is through simulation of historical or plausible
                 worst-case environments.

 Banks should be able to demonstrate that the model is sensitive to
                 material idiosyncratic differences between similar but not identical
                 positions, for example debt positions with different levels of
                 subordination, maturity mismatches, or credit derivatives with different
                 default events.

 For equity positions, events that are reflected in large changes or jumps
                 in prices must be captured, eg merger break-ups/takeovers. In
                 particular, firms must consider issues related to survivorship bias.

 Aimed at assessing whether specific risk, as well as general market risk,
                 is being captured adequately.
30.29 The bank's model must conservatively assess the risk arising from less liquid
      positions and/or positions with limited price transparency under realistic market
      scenarios. In addition, the model must meet minimum data standards. Proxies
      may be used only where available data is insufficient or is not reflective of the
      true volatility of a position or portfolio, and only where they are appropriately
      conservative.

30.30 Further, as techniques and best practices evolve, banks should avail themselves of
      these advances.

30.31 Banks which apply modelled estimates of specific risk are required to conduct
      backtesting aimed at assessing whether specific risk is being accurately captured.
      The methodology a bank should use for validating its specific risk estimates is to
      perform separate backtests on sub-portfolios using daily data on subportfolios
      subject to specific risk. The key sub-portfolios for this purpose are traded-debt
      and equity positions. However, if a bank itself decomposes its trading portfolio
      into finer categories (eg emerging markets, traded corporate debt, etc.), it is
      appropriate to keep these distinctions for sub-portfolio backtesting purposes.
      Banks are required to commit to a sub-portfolio structure and stick to it unless it
      can be demonstrated to the supervisor that it would make sense to change the
      structure.

30.32 Banks are required to have in place a process to analyse exceptions identified
      through the backtesting of specific risk. This process is intended to serve as the
      fundamental way in which banks correct their models of specific risk in the event
      they become inaccurate. There will be a presumption that models that
      incorporate specific risk are “unacceptable” if the results at the sub-portfolio level
      produce a number of exceptions commensurate with the Red Zone as defined in
      MAR99. Banks with “unacceptable” specific risk models are expected to take
      immediate action to correct the problem in the model and to ensure that there is
      a sufficient capital buffer to absorb the risk that the backtest showed had not
      been adequately captured.


Incremental risk capital requirement and comprehensive risk measure

Overview of the incremental risk capital requirement


30.33 In addition, the bank must have an approach in place to capture in its regulatory
      capital default risk and migration risk in positions subject to a capital requirement
      for specific interest rate risk, with the exception of securitisation exposures and n-
      th-to-default credit derivatives, that are incremental to the risks captured by the
      VaR-based calculation as specified in MAR30.28 (“incremental risks”). No specific
      approach for capturing the incremental risks is prescribed.

30.34 The bank must demonstrate that the approach used to capture incremental risks
      meets a soundness standard comparable to that of the internal-ratings based
      (IRB) approach for credit risk as set forth in CRE30 to CRE36, under the
      assumption of a constant level of risk, and adjusted where appropriate to reflect
      the impact of liquidity, concentrations, hedging, and optionality. A bank that does
      not capture the incremental risks through an internally developed approach must
      use the specific risk capital requirements under the standardised measurement
      method as set out in MAR20.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Normal copula assumptions: Is it accepted that banks model issuer
                   interdependence assuming multivariate normal distributions or normal
                   copula (eg between asset values, credit spreads or default times) or
                   must they show that such model assumptions do not underestimate
                   risk? It is very hard to find clear empirical support for any particular
                   copula. Among various modelling choices, the normal copula is often
                   chosen for its simplicity (for example within the regulatory IRB
                   framework). However, it is known to provide very thin tails in the loss
                   distribution and may thus provide significantly smaller loss estimates
                   than other choices.

                   The onus is on the bank to justify the modelling choices and their
                   impact to the national supervisor. Normal distributions or normal
                   copula may not be assumed uncritically. The impact of such modelling
                   choices must be analysed in the validation.



Comprehensive risk measure

30.35 Subject to supervisory approval, a bank may incorporate its correlation trading
      portfolio in an internally developed approach that adequately captures not only
      incremental default and migration risks, but all price risks (“comprehensive risk
      measure”). The value of such products is subject in particular to the following
      risks which must be adequately captured:

     (1) the cumulative risk arising from multiple defaults, including the ordering of
         defaults, in tranched products;

     (2) credit spread risk, including the gamma and cross-gamma effects;

     (3) volatility of implied correlations, including the cross effect between spreads
         and correlations;

     (4) basis risk, including both

         (a) the basis between the spread of an index and those of its constituent
             single names; and

         (b) the basis between the implied correlation of an index and that of
             bespoke portfolios;

     (5) recovery rate volatility, as it relates to the propensity for recovery rates to
         affect tranche prices; and

     (6) to the extent the comprehensive risk measure incorporates benefits from
         dynamic hedging, the risk of hedge slippage and the potential costs of
         rebalancing such hedges.


     FAQ
     FAQ1        It would be important for banks to be allowed to enhance the
                 incremental risk capital (IRC) requirement model to leave the
                 correlation book inside (ie try to comply with the comprehensive risk
                 measure but within the IRC requirement model). Would it be
                 acceptable to extend the IRC requirement framework to comply with
                 the comprehensive risk measure and perform a single calculation?

                 Banks are allowed to enhance the IRC requirement model to comply
                 with the requirements for the comprehensive risk measure. However,
                 they are not allowed to perform a single calculation covering exposures
                 subject to the IRC requirement and exposures subject to the
                 comprehensive risk measure. Disallowing a single calculation has the
                 effect of not allowing any diversification between the portfolios.

     FAQ2        Do all of the correlation trading risks listed in MAR30.35 need to be
                 included in a single model, or could a bank treat them outside the
                 main modelling framework with supervisory approval? Can the bank
                 use separate models for different products, or separate models for
                 different risk factors?


               While in principle an integrated modelling approach is desirable,
               supervisors need to be realistic, and there are practical issues that
               banks will face to deliver an integrated model. Supervisors may permit
               approaches that capitalise different risks differently (eg via an add-on
               approach), provided that this can be undertaken conservatively and it
               does not undermine the strength of risk management. However, the
               capital requirements calculated with the different models would have
               to be added using a simple sum and banks should be strongly
               encouraged to develop an integrated approach over time.

     FAQ3      Referring to MAR30.35 FAQ2, should the comprehensive risk measure
               take all risk factors into account, and not only those explicitly listed in
               MAR30.35, hence, also foreign exchange, equity, commodity risk, etc?

               Yes. The implementation of a comprehensive risk measure is required
               to capture all material risks in a bank’s portfolio, including significant
               basis risks, and should therefore take into account all (material) risk
               factors. Approaches which capitalise different risk factors differently (eg
               via add-ons) may be permitted, provided that this can be undertaken
               conservatively and it does not undermine the strength of risk
               management, as mentioned in the answer to MAR30.35 FAQ2.

     FAQ4      Would it be possible for an institution to use for purposes of the
               comprehensive risk measure a model substantially different from the
               IRC requirement model? For example, a VaR model (99.9%, 1 year).

               In principle, the model could be substantially different from that used
               for IRC requirement. However, a 99.9% one-year VaR would have
               serious shortcomings as a measure to capture the set of comprehensive
               risks required by this charge. These risks would need to be addressed if
               any bank were thinking of applying a VaR-type approach for the
               comprehensive risk measure. Just extending the current VaR measure
               to a 99.9% one-year VaR is not sufficient.

     FAQ5      MAR30.35 requires a bank to capture “the cumulative risk arising from
               multiple defaults, including the ordering of defaults, in tranched
               products”. Is it really necessary to model the ordering of defaults? The
               value of a tranche at a predetermined date (eg at the liquidity horizon)
               should only depend on the number of defaults in this period but not on
               the order. Do we have any examples where the order of default
               determines the price (risk) of a tranche?

               If the order of defaults does not have a price impact, the
               comprehensive risk measure simulation does not need to take the
               order into account.



     FAQ6      Normal copula assumptions: Is it accepted that banks model issuer
               interdependence assuming multivariate normal distributions or normal
               copula (eg between asset values, credit spreads or default times) or
               must they show that such model assumptions do not underestimate
               risk? It is very hard to find clear empirical support for any particular
               copula. Among various modelling choices, the normal copula is often
               chosen for its simplicity (for example within the regulatory IRB
               framework). However, it is known to provide very thin tails in the loss
               distribution and may thus provide significantly smaller loss estimates
               than other choices.

               The onus is on the bank to justify the modelling choices and their
               impact to the national supervisor. Normal distributions or normal
               copula may not be assumed uncritically. The impact of such modelling
               choices must be analysed in the validation.

     FAQ7      Does MAR30.44 to MAR30.71 on dynamic hedging apply to the
               comprehensive risk measure and, if so, does it have identical
               implications for the comprehensive risk measure compared to IRC
               requirement?

               MAR30.35(6) states that, to the extent the comprehensive risk measure
               incorporates benefits from dynamic hedging, comprehensive risk
               measure modelling should capture the risk of hedge slippage and the
               potential costs of rebalancing such hedges. Thus, MAR30.44 to MAR30.
               71 applies to the comprehensive risk measure with the necessary
               modifications.

     FAQ8      Given ad hoc aspects of the treatment of the correlation trading
               portfolio, is there a use test requirement associated with the
               comprehensive risk measure?

               Supervisors would expect that the modelling engine used in the
               comprehensive risk measure as well as the inputs and outputs of the
               model to be used in risk management decisions.

     FAQ9      Do the more stringent modelling standards for the comprehensive risk
               model also apply to the specific VaR modelling of correlation trading
               products?

               The introduction of the comprehensive risk measure (as well as the IRC
               requirement) is a necessary development intended to address some of
               the known flaws embedded in the VaR methodology. Accordingly, VaR
               and the comprehensive risk measure methodologies are quite different


                  in nature. In particular, the comprehensive risk measure standards
                  related to time horizon or level of confidence cannot be applied to
                  specific VaR modelling. However, to the extent that both VaR and the
                  comprehensive risk measure are required to capture all material risks
                  in a portfolio, other aspects of the comprehensive risk measure
                  standards, apart from liquidity horizon or level of confidence, related to
                  risk capture might be relevant for specific VaR as well.


30.36 The approach for modelling specific risk of correlation trading portfolio specified
      in MAR30.35 must meet all of the requirements specified in MAR30.34, and
      MAR30.37 to MAR30.39. For the exposures that the bank does incorporate in this
      internally developed approach, the bank will be required to subject them to a
      capital requirement equal to the higher of the capital requirement according to
      this internally developed approach and 8% of the capital requirement for specific
      risk according to the standardised measurement method. It will not be required
      to subject these exposures to the treatment of the incremental risk capital (IRC)
      requirement as set out in MAR30.33 and MAR30.34. It must, however, incorporate
      them in both the value-at-risk and stressed value-at-risk measures.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       Consider a risk position that is neither a securitisation position nor an
                  n-th-to-default credit derivative, but which is included in the
                  correlation trading portfolio (CTP) because a bank uses it to hedge a
                  securitisation position or an n-th-to-default derivative of the CTP. The
                  bank uses an internal model that incorporates specific risk and the risk
                  position is included in this model. If the bank incorporates the CTP in a
                  comprehensive risk measure as specified in MAR30.35, may it refrain
                  from incorporating the risk position in the IRC requirement as specified
                  in MAR30.33 and MAR30.34?

                  Yes. MAR30.35 states: “For the exposures that the bank does
                  incorporate in this internally developed approach, the bank will be
                  required to subject them to a capital requirement equal to the higher
                  of the capital requirement according to this internally developed
                  approach and 8% of the capital requirement for specific risk according
                  to the standardised measurement method. It will not be required to
                  subject these exposures to the treatment according to MAR30.34.” The
                  reference to MAR30.34 should be read as referring to both MAR30.33
                  and MAR30.34, as these two paragraphs together define the IRC
                  requirement.

       FAQ2


                   Do MAR30.44 to MAR30.71 apply to the comprehensive risk modelling
                   approach? There seems to be only a requirement to meet a standard
                   comparable to IRB under the constant level of risk assumption.

                   Where relevant, yes.

       FAQ3        If a bank applies the comprehensive risk modelling approach to the
                   correlation portfolio, does it also need to incorporate the specific risks
                   of this model within its VaR and sVaR models?

                   Yes. The IRC requirement, comprehensive risk measure and sVaR
                   should be viewed as supplemental capital measures that generally do
                   not affect the current capital framework for VaR and specific risk.
                   However, banks need not capture default and migration risks for
                   positions subject to the incremental risk capital requirement referred to
                   in MAR30.33 and MAR30.34 (see MAR30 footnote 7].

                   In addition, the IRC requirement covers default and migration risks
                   MAR30.33, whereas the comprehensive risk measure covers all price
                   risks MAR30.35.


30.37 For a bank to apply this exception as set out in MAR30.35, it must

       (1) have sufficient market data to ensure that it fully captures the salient risks of
           these exposures in its comprehensive risk measure in accordance with the
           standards set forth above;

       (2) demonstrate (for example, through backtesting) that its risk measures can
           appropriately explain the historical price variation of these products; and

       (3) ensure that it can separate the positions for which it holds approval to
           incorporate them in its comprehensive risk measure from those positions for
           which it does not hold this approval.

30.38 In addition to these data and modelling criteria as set out in MAR30.37, for a
      bank to apply this exception it must regularly apply a set of specific,
      predetermined stress scenarios to the portfolio that receives internal model
      regulatory capital treatment (ie the correlation trading portfolio). MAR99 sets out
      stress testing guidance for the correlation trading portfolio. These stress
      scenarios will examine the implications of stresses to:

       (1) default rates;

       (2) recovery rates;


       (3) credit spreads; and

       (4) correlations on the correlation trading desk’s profit and loss.

30.39 The bank must apply these stress scenarios at least weekly and report the results,
      including comparisons with the capital requirements implied by the banks’
      internal model for estimating comprehensive risks, at least quarterly to its
      supervisor. Any instances where the stress tests indicate a material shortfall of the
      comprehensive risk measure must be reported to the supervisor in a timely
      manner. Based on these stress testing results, the supervisor may impose a
      supplemental capital requirement against the correlation trading portfolio, to be
      added to the bank’s internally modelled capital requirement.


Calculation of the IRC requirement and the comprehensive risk measure

30.40 A bank must calculate the IRC requirement according to MAR30.33 and the
      comprehensive risk measure according to MAR30.35 at least weekly, or more
      frequently as directed by its supervisor.

30.41 The capital requirement for incremental risk is given by a scaling factor of 1.0
      times the maximum of

       (1) the average of the IRC requirements over 12 weeks; and

       (2) the most recent IRC requirement.

30.42 Likewise, the capital requirement for comprehensive risk is given by a scaling
      factor of 1.0 times the maximum of

       (1) the average of the comprehensive risk measures over 12 weeks; and

       (2) the most recent comprehensive risk measure.

30.43 Both capital requirements for incremental risk and comprehensive risk are added
      up. There will be no adjustment for double counting between the comprehensive
      risk measure and any other risk measures.


Specific treatment of the IRC requirement

30.44 According to MAR30.33, the IRC requirement encompasses all positions subject
      to a capital requirement for specific interest rate risk according to the internal
      models approach to specific market risk but not subject to the treatment outlined
      in MAR20.14, regardless of their perceived liquidity.


     FAQ
     FAQ1      Should sovereign bonds be included in the IRC requirement?

               Yes.

               The definition of specific risk in MAR20.4, is quite generic.
               Consequently, it does not scope out any particular securities. When an
               acceptable IRC model identifies sovereign bonds as subject to
               migration and default risk, the capital requirement should be
               determined accordingly. Even if certain sovereign bonds are subject to
               a risk weight of 0% under the standardised approach MAR20.5, they
               cannot be considered as free of default and migration risk. Therefore,
               sovereign risk should be included in the scope of the incremental risk
               capital requirement. Sovereign bonds must therefore be included in the
               relevant model. A general partial use of the standardised approach for
               sovereign bonds, ie exclusion of positions subject to a risk weight of 0%
               under the standardised approach from IRC requirement, will not be
               granted. Accordingly, they will attract a capital requirement under the
               IRC, except where the output of the model happens not to imply a
               capital requirement for these positions.

     FAQ2      Should Pfandbriefe (ie debt securities backed by cash flows from
               mortgage or public sector loans) be excluded from IRC requirement?

               Pfandbriefe and other covered bonds that do not qualify as
               securitisations should be included in IRC requirement.

     FAQ3      Should banks exclude positions (eg bonds, structured notes) issued by
               other group members from IRC requirement?

               No, positions issued by other group members should be included in the
               IRC requirement to ensure that the IRC captures a complete view of
               default and migration risk in the trading book.

     FAQ4      Should repos and reverse repos be included in the IRC requirement, or
               the comprehensive risk measure?

               Yes. A security used in a sale and repurchase agreement (repo)
               transaction should still attract a charge under the IRC requirement or
               the comprehensive risk measure , if it were to attract a capital
               requirement under the rules for market risk, including specific risk. This
               is because the repo transaction does not alter the migration or default
               risk from the point of the seller of the security. Receiving a security


                   through a reverse repo transaction will not, by itself, create a position
                   in the security. The migration or default risk stays with the seller of the
                   security.

       FAQ5        Should bonds that have already defaulted be excluded from IRC
                   requirement? What about credit default swaps (CDS) that reference
                   defaulted bonds?

                   No, bonds that have defaulted may increase in value, or may be
                   substituted by another bond that increases in value, later on. Also, the
                   lack of a consistent and uniform definition of “default” makes it
                   difficult to exclude positions based on this criterion. As long as the
                   bond is held in the trading account it should be included in the IRC
                   requirement. In terms of a CDS contract referencing a defaulted bond,
                   these should also be included in the IRC requirement until such time
                   that settlement occurs. If a credit event is deemed to occur by the
                   determination committee and settlement occurs then it can be
                   removed from the IRC requirement model.


30.45 With supervisory approval, a bank can choose consistently to include all listed
      equity and derivatives positions based on listed equity of a desk in its incremental
      risk model when such inclusion is consistent with how the bank internally
      measures and manages this risk at the trading desk level. If equity securities are
      included in the computation of incremental risk, default is deemed to occur if the
      related debt defaults (as defined in CRE36.69 and CRE36.70).

30.46 However, when computing the IRC requirement, a bank is not permitted to
      incorporate into its IRC requirement model any securitisation positions, even
      when securitisation positions are viewed as hedging underlying credit
      instruments held in the trading account.

30.47 For IRC requirement-covered positions, the IRC requirement captures:

       (1) Default risk. This means the potential for direct loss due to an obligor's
           default as well as the potential for indirect losses that may arise from a
           default event;

       (2) Credit migration risk. This means the potential for direct loss due to an
           internal/external rating downgrade or upgrade as well as the potential for
           indirect losses that may arise from a credit migration event.


     FAQ
     FAQ1      When we talk about migration risk captured in the IRC requirement, is
               it the risk of a downgrade of the internal rating that a bank gives to a
               debtor in the IRB framework, or is it the risk of the downgrade of an
               external rating of a debtor in the trading book? If it is external, should
               the bank choose a rating agency as the standard for the definition of
               migration?

               The credit migration risk part of the capital requirement can be
               determined on the basis of migrations of internal or external ratings.
               The bank’s choice may be guided in particular by an assessment of
               which kind of ratings are closer related to the changes of credit spreads
               that the bank observes in the market. The bank must apply its
               methodology in a consistent and well-reasoned way. Subject to this
               constraint the bank need not give priority to any particular external
               rating agency.

     FAQ2      Definition of migration risk as opposed to market risk: Migration risk is
               often modelled by assuming that a rating migration goes together with
               a change in credit spread from the average spread level of rating 1 to
               the average spread level of rating 2. Is this sufficient to cover migration
               risk in IRC requirement or must IRC requirement include the risk of
               losses due to temporary and/or idiosyncratic deviations of credit
               spreads from average spread levels? One could argue that these are
               market risks and are already captured in VaR. The question is
               particularly material in relation to the basis between long and short
               positions.

               It is acceptable to define migration risk as the risk of a change in credit
               spread from an average spread level 1 to an average spread level 2.
               The reason is that the Basel framework implicitly includes a capital
               requirement for a change of credit spreads from rating migrations. It
               does not include a capital requirement for changes of credit spreads
               that may occur without a rating migration (see MAR30.34 and MAR30.
               48).

               Moreover, it would be difficult to capture idiosyncratic risk in the one-
               year IRC requirement horizon.

               In the context of this question, the bank should specifically evaluate the
               representativeness of the average spread levels, mappings from ratings
               to credit spreads, rating transition matrices, spread homogeneity in the
               partition class (eg a rating group) etc.

                  The method for establishing ratings should fully reflect positions in the
                  bank’s portfolios.


      FAQ3        Taking into account that both migration and default risks have to be
                  captured in IRC requirement, is it necessary to still model default and
                  migration in VaR and sVaR?

                  Not necessarily.

                  MAR30 footnote 7 states that, for specific risk modelling, banks need
                  not capture default and migration risks for positions subject to the iIRC
                  requirement referred to in MAR30.33 and MAR30.34. This is also the
                  case for stressed VaR, since VaR and sVaR methodologies should be
                  aligned.

                  At the same time specific risk for credit spread models are meant to
                  capture idiosyncratic risk in terms of credit spreads. Specific risk models
                  can include spread jumps and may therefore include rating migrations.
                  The same applies to VaR and sVaR though the impact in sVaR may be
                  greater than in VaR.


30.48 For all IRC requirement-covered positions, a bank’s IRC requirement model must
      measure losses due to default and migration at the 99.9 percent confidence
      interval over a capital horizon of one year, taking into account the liquidity
      horizons applicable to individual trading positions or sets of positions. Losses
      caused by broader market-wide events affecting multiple issues/issuers are
      encompassed by this definition.


      FAQ
      FAQ1        Are there any specific regulatory requirements on the level of pro-
                  cyclicality of an IRC requirement model (on the continuum between
                  reactive “point-in-time” and stable “through-the-cycle”)?

                  There are no particular regulatory standards on what level of cyclicality
                  of the estimates from an IRC requirement model are acceptable.

      FAQ2        Which roles should be played by parameters such as IRB loss-given-
                  default (LGD) and other (issuer- or position-specific) estimates of loss
                  rates, credit spreads, market price variations, etc in the IRC
                  requirement model?


                   If multiple modelling choices are deemed feasible, banks should at
                   least estimate their impact on the IRC requirement figure. For instance,
                   banks could compare approaches using issuer-specific downturn LGDs
                   (taken from the IRB context) with approaches relevant using historical
                   market price movements of positions which are deemed representative.
                   Furthermore, the bank’s evaluation of the prudence of its assumptions
                   could encompass elements such as the lengths of historical time series,
                   the coverage of stressed historical time periods and the functions used
                   for fitting.



30.49 As described immediately below, for each IRC requirement-covered position the
      model should also capture the impact of rebalancing positions at the end of their
      liquidity horizons so as to achieve a constant level of risk over a one-year capital
      horizon. The model may incorporate correlation effects among the modelled risk
      factors, subject to validation standards set forth in MAR30.68. The trading
      portfolio’s IRC requirement equals the IRC requirement model’s estimate of
      losses at the 99.9 percent confidence level.


IRC requirement: Constant level of risk over one-year capital horizon

30.50 An IRC requirement model should be based on the assumption of a constant
      level of risk over the one-year capital horizon.


This assumption is consistent with the capital computations in the CRE
                   standard. In all cases (loans, derivatives and repos), the CRE standard
                   defines exposure at default in a way that reflects a roll-over of existing
                   exposures when they mature. The combination of the constant level of
                   risk assumption and the one-year capital horizon reflects supervisors’
                   assessment of the appropriate capital needed to support the risk in the
                   trading portfolio. It also reflects the importance to the financial
                   markets of banks having the capital capacity to continue providing
                   liquidity to the financial markets in spite of trading losses. Consistent
                   with a “going concern” view of a bank, this assumption is appropriate
                   because a bank must continue to take risks to support its income-
                   producing activities. For regulatory capital adequacy purposes, it is not
                   appropriate to assume that a bank would reduce its VaR to zero at a
                   short-term horizon in reaction to large trading losses. It also is not
                   appropriate to rely on the prospect that a bank could raise additional
                   Tier 1 capital during stressed market conditions.




 
30.51 This constant level of risk assumption implies that a bank rebalances, or rolls
      over, its trading positions over the one-year capital horizon in a manner that
      maintains the initial risk level, as indicated by a metric such as VaR or the profile
      of exposure by credit rating and concentration. This means incorporating the
      effect of replacing positions whose credit characteristics have improved or
      deteriorated over the liquidity horizon with positions that have risk characteristics
      equivalent to those that the original position had at the start of the liquidity
      horizon. The frequency of the assumed rebalancing must be governed by the
      liquidity horizon for a given position.

30.52 Rebalancing positions does not imply, as the IRB approach for the banking book
      does, that the same positions will be maintained throughout the capital horizon.
      Particularly for more liquid and more highly rated positions, this provides a
      benefit relative to the treatment under the IRB framework. However, a bank may
      elect to use a one-year constant position assumption, as long as it does so
      consistently across all portfolios.


IRC requirement: Liquidity horizon

30.53 Stressed credit market events have shown that firms cannot assume that markets
      remain liquid under those conditions. Banks experienced significant illiquidity in a
      wide range of credit products held in the trading book, including leveraged loans.
      Under these circumstances, liquidity in many parts of the securitisation markets
      dried up, forcing banks to retain exposures in securitisation pipelines for
      prolonged periods of time. The Committee therefore expects firms to pay
      particular attention to the appropriate liquidity horizon assumptions within their
      IRC requirement models.

30.54 The liquidity horizon represents the time required to sell the position or to hedge
      all material risks covered by the IRC requirement model in a stressed market. The
      liquidity horizon must be measured under conservative assumptions and should
      be sufficiently long that the act of selling or hedging, in itself, does not materially
      affect market prices. The determination of the appropriate liquidity horizon for a
      position or set of positions may take into account a bank’s internal policies
      relating to, for example, prudent valuation (as per the prudent valuation guidance
      of CAP50), valuation adjustments and the management of stale positions.

 For establishing prudent valuation adjustments, see also CAP50.


30.55 The liquidity horizon for a position or set of positions has a floor of three months.

30.56 In general, within a given product type a non-investment-grade position is
      expected to have a longer assumed liquidity horizon than an investment-grade
      position. Conservative assumptions regarding the liquidity horizon for non-
      investment-grade positions are warranted until further evidence is gained
      regarding the market’s liquidity during systematic and idiosyncratic stress
      situations. Firms also need to apply conservative liquidity horizon assumptions for
      products, regardless of rating, where secondary market liquidity is not deep,
      particularly during periods of financial market volatility and investor risk aversion.
      The application of prudent liquidity assumptions is particularly important for
      rapidly growing product classes that have not been tested in a downturn.

30.57 A bank can assess liquidity by position or on an aggregated basis (“buckets”). If
      an aggregated basis is used (eg investment-grade European corporate exposures
      not part of a core credit default swap index), the aggregation criteria would be
      defined in a way that meaningfully reflect differences in liquidity.

30.58 The liquidity horizon is expected to be greater for positions that are
      concentrated, reflecting the longer period needed to liquidate such positions.
      This longer liquidity horizon for concentrated positions is necessary to provide
      adequate capital against two types of concentration: issuer concentration and
      market concentration.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        What is the link between the liquidity horizon and issuer
                   concentration? Would it be better to address issuer concentration
                   through the correlation assumptions?

                   No. Where a bank has concentrated positions in terms of the market
                   this should be reflected in a longer liquidity horizon – consistent with
                   the view that it takes longer to liquidate concentrated positions.
                   Concentrated positions in terms of the bank’s portfolio would be
                   reflected in the correlations inherent in the model.



IRC requirement: Correlations and diversification

30.59 Economic and financial dependence among obligors causes a clustering of
      default and migration events. Accordingly, the IRC requirement includes the
      impact of correlations between default and migration events among obligors and
      a bank’s IRC requirement model must include the impact of such clustering of
      default and migration events.



30.60
        The impact of diversification between default or migration risks in the trading
        book and other risks in the trading book is not currently well understood.
        Therefore, the impact of diversification between default or migration events and
        other market variables would not be reflected in the computation of capital for
        incremental risk. This is consistent with the Basel framework, which does not
        allow for the benefit of diversification when combining capital requirements for
        credit risk and market risk. Accordingly, the capital requirement for incremental
        default and migration losses is added to the VaR-based capital requirement for
        market risk.


IRC requirement: Concentration

30.61 A bank’s IRC requirement model must appropriately reflect issuer and market
      concentrations. Thus, other things being equal, a concentrated portfolio should
      attract a higher capital requirement than a more granular portfolio (see also
      MAR30.58). Concentrations that can arise within and across product classes under
      stressed conditions must also be reflected.


IRC requirement: Risk mitigation and diversification effects

30.62 Within the IRC requirement model, exposure amounts may be netted only when
      long and short positions refer to the same financial instrument. Otherwise,
      exposure amounts must be captured on a gross (ie non-netted) basis. Thus,
      hedging or diversification effects associated with long and short positions
      involving different instruments or different securities of the same obligor (“intra-
      obligor hedges”), as well as long and short positions in different issuers (“inter-
      obligor hedges”), may not be recognised through netting of exposure amounts.
      Rather, such effects may only be recognised by capturing and modelling
      separately the gross long and short positions in the different instruments or
      securities.



       FAQ
       FAQ1       The following questions relate to the interpretation of the netting
                  requirement that positions must “refer to the same financial
                  instrument” as set out in MAR30.62: can bonds that are deliverable
                  into a credit default swap (CDS) be netted against those CDS? Can
                  (otherwise identical) CDS with different maturities be netted? Does the
                  answer change if both CDS have residual maturities beyond the one
                  year capital horizon? Can total return swaps (TRS) be netted with the
                  instruments that they reference? The standard specific risk rules do not
                  require maturity matches for such netting. Is this also the case for IRC
                  requirement?

                  The offsetting treatment described in MAR20.15 to MAR20.17 under
                  the standardised measurement method is not applicable to modelled
                  approaches. As stated in MAR30.62, within the IRC requirement model,
                  exposure amounts may be netted only when long and short positions
                  refer to the same financial instrument. (Note that under the IRC
                  requirement – in contrast to the standardised measurement method –
                  a TRS can only be netted against the underlying reference obligation
                  when there is no maturity mismatch, ie when the TRS is of the same
                  maturity as the underlying.) When long and short positions do not
                  refer to the same financial instrument, exposure amounts must be
                  captured in the IRC requirement model on a “non-netted” basis. (A
                  CDS is, of course, not the same financial instrument as a bond that is
                  deliverable into the CDS.) In other words all short and long positions
                  must be captured and modelled separately in order to reflect basis risks
                  in the model.


30.63 Significant basis risks by product, seniority in the capital structure, internal or
      external rating, maturity, vintage for offsetting positions as well as differences
      between offsetting instruments, such as different payout triggers and procedures,
      should be reflected in the IRC requirement model.

30.64 If an instrument has a shorter maturity than the liquidity horizon or a maturity
      longer than the liquidity horizon is not contractually assured, the IRC requirement
      must, where material, include the impact of potential risks that could occur
      during the interval between the maturity of the instrument and the liquidity
      horizon.

30.65 For trading book risk positions that are typically hedged via dynamic hedging
      strategies, a rebalancing of the hedge within the liquidity horizon of the hedged
      position may also be recognised. Such recognition is only admissible if the bank
       (1) chooses to model rebalancing of the hedge consistently over the relevant set
           of trading book risk positions,

       (2) demonstrates that the inclusion of rebalancing results in a better risk
           measurement, and

       (3) demonstrates that the markets for the instruments serving as hedge are
           liquid enough to allow for this kind of rebalancing even during periods of
           stress.

30.66 Any residual risks resulting from dynamic hedging strategies must be reflected in
      the capital requirement. A bank should validate its approach to capture such
      residual risks to the satisfaction of its supervisor.

30.67 The IRC requirement model must reflect the impact of optionality. Accordingly,
      banks’ models should include the nonlinear impact of options and other
      positions with material nonlinear behaviour with respect to price changes. The
      bank should also have due regard to the amount of model risk inherent in the
      valuation and estimation of price risks associated with such products.


IRC requirement: Validation

30.68 Banks should apply the validation principles described in MAR30.27 in designing,
      testing and maintaining their IRC requirement models. This includes evaluating
      conceptual soundness, ongoing monitoring that includes process verification and
      benchmarking, and outcomes analysis. Some factors that should be considered in
      the validation process include:

       (1) Liquidity horizons should reflect actual practice and experience during
           periods of both systematic and idiosyncratic stresses.

       (2) The IRC requirement model for measuring default and migration risks over
           the liquidity horizon should take into account objective data over the
           relevant horizon and include comparison of risk estimates for a rebalanced
           portfolio with that of a portfolio with fixed positions.


     (3) Correlation assumptions must be supported by analysis of objective data in a
         conceptually sound framework. If a bank uses a multi-period model to
         compute incremental risk, it should evaluate the implied annual correlations
         to ensure they are reasonable and in line with observed annual correlations.
         A bank must validate that its modelling approach for correlations is
         appropriate for its portfolio, including the choice and weights of its



         systematic risk factors. A bank must document its modelling approach so
         that its correlation and other modelling assumptions are transparent to
         supervisors.

     (4) Owing to the high confidence standard and long capital horizon of the IRC
         requirement, robust direct validation of the IRC requirement model through
         standard backtesting methods at the 99.9%/one-year soundness standard
         will not be possible. Accordingly, validation of an IRC requirement model
         necessarily must rely more heavily on indirect methods including but not
         limited to stress tests, sensitivity analyses and scenario analyses, to assess its
         qualitative and quantitative reasonableness, particularly with regard to the
         model’s treatment of concentrations. Given the nature of the IRC
         requirement soundness standard such tests must not be limited to the range
         of events experienced historically. The validation of an IRC requirement
         model represents an ongoing process in which supervisors and firms jointly
         determine the exact set of validation procedures to be employed.

     (5) Firms should strive to develop relevant internal modelling benchmarks to
         assess the overall accuracy of their IRC requirement models.


     FAQ
     FAQ1        Are banks expected to perform their own evaluation of the (joint)
                 distributional assumptions in their IRC requirement model (including
                 the structure of stochastic dependencies and copulas/correlations, as
                 well as the number of stochastic factors)?

                 Yes. Despite the relatively limited amount of relevant historical data,
                 the (joint) distributional assumptions in an IRC requirement model
                 should not remain unchallenged, because of their material impact on
                 the IRC requirement figure.

                 The justification of these distributional assumptions forms an element
                 in the justification of the IRC model’s design, since the entirety of
                 interlinked modelling choices establishes whether an IRC requirement
                 model is suitable for estimating losses at the 99.9% confidence level.

     FAQ2      An IRC requirement model could employ input parameters which are
               related to IRB parameters (such as probabilities of default, or PDs, or
               LGDs) or come from external sources (such as credit spreads and
               estimates of default/loss rates). Should banks justify the applicability of
               such exposure-dependent inputs within their IRC requirement model?

               Yes. Banks should evidence the appropriateness of exposure-related
               parameters as inputs to their IRC requirement model. Depending on
               their IRC requirement model’s design, this could concern parameters
               such as credit rating data, IRB PDs/LGDs and other estimates of default
               /loss rates, credit spreads, mappings (eg from ratings to credit spreads),
               rating transition matrices, etc.

               As mentioned in the answer on MAR30.68(FAQ1) the justification of
               the parameters employed forms an element in the justification of the
               IRC requirement model’s design.

               Furthermore, MAR30.63 explicitly requires that significant basis risks
               should be reflected in the IRC requirement model.

     FAQ3      Should banks underpin that, if applicable, the number of Monte Carlo
               simulations within their IRC requirement model is sufficiently high (for
               instance by providing a convergence graph to demonstrate that the
               intermediate results become relatively stable), and that – if applicable –
               the discretisation (of a continuous evolution equation) is sufficiently
               fine-grained?

               Yes. The onus is on the bank to justify such choices and their impact to
               the national supervisor. Whichever approach a bank chooses, it must
               demonstrate in the validation of the model that the choice is prudent.
               Furthermore, referring to the answer to MAR30.68 (FAQ4), banks are
               encouraged to quantify all model uncertainties, including any
               simulation and discretisation errors.

     FAQ4      How should banks deal with the IRC requirement figure’s sensitivity
               with respect to the diverse model choices? Which benchmarks could
               banks use as yardsticks to substantiate that, despite the model
               uncertainty, the resulting IRC requirement figure is representative for
               sufficiently stressed circumstances?

               Banks are encouraged to review and provide evidence on the
               uncertainty around the outcomes of their IRC requirement model, for
               example by identifying the most significant assumptions, evaluating



                   the (statistical) techniques employed, assessing alternatives, estimating
                   uncertainty bounds and quantifying the resulting impact on the IRC
                   requirement figure.

       FAQ5        How should the IRC requirement model be backtested?

                   Owing to the high confidence standard and long capital horizon of the
                   IRC requirement, robust direct validation of the IRC requirement model
                   through standard backtesting methods at the 99.9%/one-year
                   soundness standard will not be possible. Accordingly, validation of an
                   IRC requirement model necessarily must rely more heavily on indirect
                   methods including but not limited to stress tests, sensitivity analyses
                   and scenario analyses, to assess its qualitative and quantitative
                   reasonableness. Also, supervisors would in general look at the
                   validation process regarding the input parameters to the models.

       FAQ6        What is meant by MAR30.68 which states that the IRC requirement
                   model for measuring default and migration risks over the liquidity
                   horizon should include comparison of risk estimates for a rebalanced
                   portfolio with that of a portfolio with fixed positions?

                   This refers to the fact that a bank might be able to make assumptions
                   of portfolio rebalancing in its assessment of IRC requirement. If this is
                   the case, then this requirement relates to the bank comparing those
                   results with the results that would have applied if the positions were
                   held constant over the relevant liquidity horizon.



IRC requirement: Use of internal risk measurement models to compute the IRC
requirement

30.69 As noted above, the market risk framework does not prescribe any specific
      modelling approach for capturing incremental risk. Because a consensus does not
      yet exist with respect to measuring risk for potentially illiquid trading positions, it
      is anticipated that banks will develop different IRC requirement modelling
      approaches.

30.70 The approach that a bank uses to measure the IRC requirement is subject to the
      “use test”. Specifically, the approach must be consistent with the bank’s internal
      risk management methodologies for identifying, measuring, and managing
      trading risks.



30.71 Ideally, the supervisory principles set forth in MAR30.44 to MAR30.71 would be
      incorporated within a bank’s internal models for measuring trading book risks

      and assigning an internal capital requirement to these risks. However, in practice
      a bank’s internal approach for measuring trading book risks may not map directly
      into the above supervisory principles in terms of capital horizon, constant level of
      risk, rollover assumptions or other factors. In this case, the bank must
      demonstrate that the resulting internal capital requirement would deliver a
      charge at least as high as the charge produced by a model that directly applies
      the supervisory principles.



                                 MAR50
                                 Credit valuation adjustment
                                 framework
                                 This chapter sets out how to calculate capital
                                 requirements to cover credit valuation
                                 adjustment risk.


                                 
Credit valuation adjustment risk capital requirement
50.1   The risk-weighted assets (RWA) for credit valuation adjustment (CVA) risk are
       determined by multiplying the capital requirements calculated as set out in this
       chapter by 12.5.

50.2   In addition to the default risk capital requirements for counterparty credit risk
       determined based on the standardised or internal ratings-based (IRB) approaches
       for credit risk, a bank must add a capital requirement to cover the risk of mark-to-
       market losses on the expected counterparty risk (such losses being known as
       CVA) to over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives. The CVA capital requirement will be
       calculated in the manner set forth below depending on the bank’s approved
       method of calculating capital requirements for counterparty credit risk and
       specific interest rate risk. A bank is not required to include in this capital
       requirement:

       (1) transactions with a qualifying central counterparty; and

       (2) securities financing transactions (SFTs), unless their supervisor determines
           that the bank’s CVA loss exposures arising from SFT transactions are
           material.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       Can the Basel Committee clarify whether the 1.06 scaling factor
                  applied to RWA for credit risk CRE30.4 will apply to the CVA RWA
                  category? Our expectation is that the calculation of CVA RWA is a
                  market risk calculation and the 1.06 scaling factor should not be
                  applied.

                  The 1.06 scaling factor does not apply. The CVA volatility formula
                  multiplied with the factor 3 (under the quantitative standards described
                  in MAR30.16) produces a capital number directly, rather than an RWA.
                  Multiplying the CVA volatility charge by 12.5 to get an RWA equivalent
                  would then not involve the 1.06 scalar.

       FAQ2       The counterparty credit risk rules in CRE50 to CRE55 include a number
                  of areas that have not previously received regulatory scrutiny. Does the
                  Basel Committee consider that supervisory approvals will be required
                  for Basel III, specifically in the areas of: (1) proxy models in respect of
                  credit default swap (CDS) spread used where no direct CDS available;
                  (2) applicability of index hedges to obtain the base 50% offset of the
                  new CVA capital requirement; (3) if the basis risk requirement for index
                  hedges is sufficient to satisfy the supervisor, will this automatically


               enable a 100% offset or is it intended to be a sliding scale between
               50% and 100%; (4) overall system and process infrastructure to deliver
               the Basel III changes, even if covered by existing approved models and
               processes; (5) choice of stress periods to ensure industry consistency (in
               this regard, for value-at-risk, or VaR, calculation purposes, how should
               the one year period within the three year stress period be identified);
               and (6) the fundamental review of the Trading Book will include further
               analysis of the new CVA volatility charge - is there any indication as to
               implementation date and, in the meantime, should CVA market risk
               sensitivities be included in the bank’s VaR calculation.

               The use of an advanced or standardised CVA risk capital requirement
               method depends on whether banks have existing regulatory approvals
               for both internal models method and specific risk of debt instruments
               in their VaR model. Supervisors will review each element of banks’ CVA
               risk capital requirement framework based on each national
               supervisor's normal supervisory review process.

     FAQ3      How should purchased credit derivative protection against a banking
               book exposure that is subject to the double-default framework CRE32.
               27 or the substitution approach CRE22.32 to CRE22.34 be treated in
               the context of the CVA capital requirement?

               Purchased credit derivative protection against a banking book
               exposure that is subject to the double default framework (CRE32.27) or
               the substitution approach (CRE22.32 to CRE22.34) and where the
               banking book exposure itself is not subject to the CVA capital
               requirement, will also not enter the CVA capital requirement. This
               purchased credit derivative protection may not be recognised as hedge
               for any other exposure. (This is consistent with CRE51.16 that says that
               the exposure at default, or EAD, for counterparty credit risk from such
               instruments is zero. It is also consistent in the sense that hedging
               should not increase the capital requirement.)

     FAQ4      How should purchased credit derivative protection against a
               counterparty credit risk exposure that is subject to the double-default
               framework (CRE32.27) or the substitution approach (CRE22.32 to
               CRE22.34) be treated in the context of the CVA capital-charge?

               For purchased protection against a counterparty credit risk exposure
               that is itself subject to the CVA capital requirement, the procedure is
               analogous to the substitution approach. That is:

               a)     in the advanced CVA charge, the exposure time-profile (EE_i) of
               the original counterparty credit risk gets reduced by the protected



               amount and the exposure profile to the protection seller gets increased
               by the amount for which it has sold protection. This substitution is
               done for time buckets whose valuation time (t_i) is smaller than the
               maturity of the purchased protection but not for the buckets with
               larger valuation times.

               b)    In the standardised CVA capital requirement, the protected
               amount times the residual maturity of the protection gets deducted
               from the M x EAD of the original counterparty credit risk and added to
               the M x EAD of the protection seller.

               Alternatively, if the purchased protection is an eligible hedge within the
               CVA capital requirement (MAR50.13 and MAR50.14), then the credit
               protection may be recognised as a CDS hedge as specified in the rules
               for the CVA capital requirement. In the latter case, the CVA capital
               requirement must also reflect the CVA-risk of the credit protection.
               That is, despite CRE51.16 which still applies in the context of the
               default-risk charge, the counterparty credit risk exposure towards the
               protection seller may not be set to zero in the context of the CVA
               capital requirement.

     FAQ5      Is a bank required to calculate the CVA capital requirement daily?

               Banks should discuss the frequency with which the CVA capital
               requirement needs to be computed with their national supervisor. To
               receive regulatory approval to use the advanced CVA approach, banks
               are generally expected to have the systems’ capability to calculate the
               CVA capital requirement on a daily basis, but would not be expected or
               required to calculate it on a daily basis. Instead, banks are required to
               calculate the CVA capital requirement at least on a monthly basis in
               which expected exposure is also required to be calculated. In this case,
               banks are to calculate VaR and stressed VaR by taking the average
               over a quarter.

     FAQ6      We seek clarification of whether the reduction in EAD by incurred CVA
               extends to the calculation of expected loss amounts for banks applying
               IRB risk weights. We would expect the reduction in EAD to be extended
               to expected loss (EL) but this would necessitate amendments to other
               requirements (eg CRE35.2). Could the Committee confirm that
               amendments to the calculation of CVA risk and default risk capital will
               be clarified to refer to expected loss capital deduction as well as RWA?

               The Committee confirms that, after the quantitative impact study
               undertaken after the release of the Basel III Accord, incurred CVA will
               be recognised as a reduction in EAD when calculating the default risk

               capital. Incurred CVA is not permitted to be counted as eligible
               provisions under CAP30.13, ie banks that are currently recognising
               CVA as general provisions to offset expected loss in the IRB framework
               should no longer count CVA as provisions. Nevertheless, EL can be
               calculated based on the reduced “outstanding EAD” which reflects
               incurred CVA (see CRE51.12). That is, for derivatives, the EL is
               calculated as PD*LGD*(outstanding EAD).

     FAQ7      Could the treatment of defaulted exposures in terms of CVA capital
               requirement and incurred CVA be clarified?

               Banks are not required to calculate the CVA capital requirement for
               defaulted counterparties, where the loss due to default has been
               recognised for accounting and reporting purposes and provided that,
               as a result of the default, the derivative contracts have been
               transformed into a simple claim and no longer have the characteristics
               of a derivative.

     FAQ8      Is an intercompany transaction with a zero risk weight subject to a
               CVA capital requirement? Industry members would like confirmation
               on a technical note that, as with the downgrade-and-default charge
               within the Basel II framework, the CVA-variability charge associated
               with affiliate exposures will net out under group consolidated reporting.

               As per the group consolidated reporting, no regulatory capital
               requirement (including a CVA capital requirement) applies to
               intercompany transactions. This should include the relevant CVA hedge
               that is only with an internal desk; internal hedges are not recognised
               for regulatory capital purposes because they are eliminated in
               consolidation.



Advanced CVA risk capital requirement
50.3   Banks with internal models method (IMM) approval for counterparty credit risk
       and approval to use the market risk internal models approach for the specific
       interest-rate risk of bonds must calculate this additional capital requirement by
       modelling the impact of changes in the counterparties’ credit spreads on the
       CVAs of all OTC derivative counterparties, together with eligible CVA hedges
       according to MAR50.12 to MAR50.14, using the bank’s VaR model for bonds. This
       value-at-risk (VaR) model is restricted to changes in the counterparties’ credit
       spreads and does not model the sensitivity of CVA to changes in other market
       factors, such as changes in the value of the reference asset, commodity, currency
       or interest rate of a derivative. Regardless of the accounting valuation method a
       bank uses for determining CVA, the CVA capital requirement calculation must be
       based on the following formula for the CVA of each counterparty, where:

       (1) ti is the time of the i-th revaluation time bucket, starting from t0=0.

       (2) tT is the longest contractual maturity across the netting sets with the
           counterparty.

       (3) si is the credit spread of the counterparty at tenor ti, used to calculate the
           CVA of the counterparty. Whenever the credit default swap (CDS) spread of
           the counterparty is available, this must be used. Whenever such a CDS
           spread is not available, the bank must use a proxy spread that is appropriate
           based on the rating, industry and region of the counterparty.

       (4) LGDMKT is the loss-given-default of the counterparty and should be based
           on the spread of a market instrument of the counterparty (or where a
           counterparty instrument is not available, based on the proxy spread that is
           appropriate based on the rating, industry and region of the counterparty). It
           should be noted that this LGDMKT, which inputs into the calculation of the
           CVA risk capital requirement, is different from the loss-given-default (LGD)
           that is determined for the IRB and counterparty credit risk (CCR) default risk
           charge, as this LGDMKT is a market assessment rather than an internal
           estimate.

       (5) The first factor within the sum represents an approximation of the market
           implied marginal probability of a default occurring between times ti-1 and ti.
           Market implied default probability (also known as risk-neutral probability)
           represents the market price of buying protection against a default and is in
           general different from the real-world likelihood of a default.


     (6) EEi is the expected exposure to the counterparty at revaluation time ti, as
         defined in CRE53.12 (regulatory expected exposure), where exposures of
         different netting sets for such counterparty are added, and where the
         longest maturity of each netting set is given by the longest contractual
         maturity inside the netting set.

     (7) Di is the default risk-free discount factor at time ti, where D0 = 1.




     FAQ
     FAQ1        MAR50.3 permits the use of proxy CDS spreads. As the majority of
                 banks have portfolios that extend well beyond the scope of bond
                 issuers, proxying a CDS spread will be the norm rather than the
                 exception. We consider this approach to be acceptable given an
                 appropriate model. Is this correct?

                 Yes, that is correct. To the extent that single-name CDS spread data is
                 not available, banks should use a proxy spread, the methodology for
                 determining the proxy being part of the approved internal model for
                 specific interest rate risk.

     FAQ2        We seek clarification of the calculation of LGD for the purposes of
                 MAR50.3 where market instruments or proxy market information is not
                 available). For example, for sovereign entities the identification of a
                 market spread or a proxy spread is often not possible other than in
                 distressed scenarios. Also, we seek clarity on how to take into account
                 potential security packages or other credit enhancement provisions
                 that could be available in the Credit Support Annex or the trade
                 confirmation.

                 While the Committee recognises that there is often limited market
                 information of LGDMKT (or equivalently the market implied recovery
                 rate), the use of LGDMKT for CVA purposes is deemed most appropriate
                 given the market convention of CVA. As it is also the market
                 convention to use a fixed recovery rate for CDS pricing purposes, banks
                 may use that information for purposes of the CVA risk capital
                 requirement in the absence of other information. In cases where a
                 netting set of derivatives has a different seniority than those derivative
                 instruments that trade in the market from which LGDMKT is inferred, a

                   bank may adjust LGDMKT to reflect this difference in seniority. Note
                   that bank specific risk mitigants are not used for this calculation.

       FAQ3        MAR50.3 states: “Whenever such a CDS spread is not available, the
                   bank must use a proxy spread that is appropriate based on the rating,
                   industry and region of the counterparty.” For counterparties (eg small
                   or medium-sized entities) where no market data is available, neither
                   CDS spreads nor traded debt, VaR modelling based on proxy index
                   spreads is hard to validate. Is it left to the national supervisor to decide
                   whether these may be modelled in advanced CVA or should
                   standardised CVA be compulsory? The recognition of index hedges is
                   very different in advanced CVA and standardised CVA, so this could
                   lead to material differences in implementation.

                   Yes, it is left to national supervisors to decide.

       FAQ4        The regulatory CVA formula contains the terms EEi and Di which
                   assume in the case of interest rate related exposures (eg interest rate
                   swaps) that the discount factor and IR exposures are independent. Is
                   the bank allowed to replace the terms EEi x Di by E [discount factor x
                   max (0, V(t))]?

                   No, the regulatory formula is not to be changed.


50.4   The formula in MAR50.3 must be the basis for all inputs into the bank’s approved
       VaR model for bonds when calculating the CVA risk capital requirement for a
       counterparty. For example, if this approved VaR model is based on full repricing,
       then the formula must be used directly. If the bank’s approved VaR model is
       based on credit spread sensitivities for specific tenors, the bank must base each
       credit spread sensitivity on the following formula:




50.5   This derivation of the formula in MAR50.3 assumes positive marginal default
       probabilities before and after time bucket ti and is valid for i<T. For the final time
       bucket i=T, the corresponding formula is as follows:



50.6

       If the bank’s approved VaR model uses credit spread sensitivities to parallel shifts
       in credit spreads (Regulatory CS01), then the bank must use the following
       formula (the derivation of which assumes positive marginal default probabilities):




50.7   If the bank’s approved VaR model uses second-order sensitivities to shifts in
       credit spreads (spread gamma), the gammas must be calculated based on the
       formula in MAR50.3.

50.8   Banks with IMM approval for the majority of their businesses, but which use the
       standardised approach for counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR) for certain smaller
       portfolios, and which have approval to use the market risk internal models
       approach for the specific interest rate risk of bonds, will include these non-IMM
       netting sets into the CVA risk capital requirement, according to MAR50.3, unless
       the national supervisor decides that MAR50.15 should apply for these portfolios.
       Non-IMM netting sets are included into the advanced CVA risk capital
       requirement by assuming a constant expected exposure (EE) profile, where EE is
       set equal to the exposure-at-default (EAD) as computed under the SA-CCR for a
       maturity equal to the maximum of: (i) half of the longest maturity occurring in the
       netting set; and (ii) the notional weighted average maturity of all transactions
       inside the netting set. The same approach applies where the IMM model does
       not produce an EE profile.

50.9   For exposures to certain counterparties, the bank's approved market risk VaR
       model may not reflect the risk of credit spread changes appropriately, because
       the bank's market risk VaR model does not appropriately reflect the specific risk
       of debt instruments issued by the counterparty. For such exposures, the bank is
       not allowed to use the advanced CVA risk charge. Instead, for these exposures
       the bank must determine the CVA risk charge by application of the standardised
       method in MAR50.15 and MAR50.16. Only exposures to counterparties for which
       the bank has supervisory approval for modelling the specific risk of debt
       instruments are to be included into the advanced CVA risk charge.

50.10 The CVA risk capital requirement consists of both general and specific credit
      spread risks, including stressed VaR but excluding the incremental risk capital
      requirement. The VaR figure should be determined in accordance with the
      quantitative standards described in MAR30.12 to MAR30.15. It is thus determined
      as the sum of the non-stressed VaR component and the stressed VaR
      component. For the calculation of each component:


     (1) When calculating the non-stressed VaR, current parameter calibrations for
         expected exposure must be used.

     (2) When calculating the stressed VaR future counterparty EE profiles (according
         to the stressed exposure parameter calibrations as defined in CRE53.51) must
         be used. The period of stress for the credit spread parameters should be the
         most severe one-year stress period contained within the three-year stress
         period used for the exposure parameters.
Note that the three-times multiplier inherent in the calculation of a
                 bond VaR and a stressed VaR will apply to these calculations.


     FAQ
     FAQ1        MAR50.10 requires a period of stress for credit spread parameters to be
                 used in determining future counterparty EE profiles under the stressed
                 VaR capital component of the advanced CVA risk capital requirement.
                 We seek confirmation that the credit spread of the counterparty input
                 into the CVA and regulatory CS01 formulae (ie si) is not impacted by
                 this. That is, the si inputs remain the same for both the VaR and
                 stressed VaR capital calculations of the CVA risk capital requirement.

                 It depends on the specific risk VaR model. If the VaR model uses a
                 sensitivity (or Greek) based approach, the credit spread values in the
                 1st and 2nd-order sensitivities (as in MAR50.7) are the current levels
                 (“as of valuation date”) for both unstressed VaR and stressed VaR. In
                 contrast, if the VaR model uses a full-revaluation approach using the
                 CVA formula as in MAR50.3, the credit spread inputs should be based
                 on the relevant stress scenarios.

     FAQ2        Does a specific backtesting on the CVA VaR need to be conducted or is
                 the backtesting of the market VaR considered as relevant also for the
                 CVA VaR? In particular, MAR50 (footnote 1) says that “the three-times
                 multiplier inherent in the calculation of a bond VaR and a stressed VaR
                 will apply to these calculations.” Does it mean that the multipliers
                 applied to the CVA VaR have to be the same as the multipliers applied
                 to the market risk VaR (ie at least 3 + backtesting of market risk VaR)
                 or does a specific multiplier for the CVA capital requirement need to be
                 calculated depending on the results of the backtesting of the CVA VaR?

                 Banks are not required to conduct a separate VaR backtesting for
                 purposes of the CVA capital requirement. MAR50 (Footnote 1) was



Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                               727/1626
                  intended to require banks to apply at least a three-times multiplier and
                  a potentially higher multiplier for CVA purposes where appropriate.

       FAQ3       From MAR50.10, our understanding is that the periods involved in the
                  calculation of stressed Effective expected positive exposure (EPE) and
                  the CVA capital requirement, according to MAR50.10(2), are as follows:

                        A period of stress to the credit default spreads of a bank’s
                        counterparties. The length of this period is not defined (in CRE53.
                        51);
                        A three-year period containing period (1). This three-year period
                        is used for calibration when calculating stressed Effective EPE;
                        The one-year period of most severe stress to credit spreads within
                        period (2). This one-year period is used when calculating stressed
                        VaR, as described in MAR50.10(2). In general, period (3) will be
                        different from the one-year period used to calculate stressed VaR,
                        as described in MAR30.14 to MAR30.17. The difference is due to
                        period (3) being a period of stress to credit spreads, whereas the
                        market risk one-year period is a period of stress to the bank’s
                        portfolio and therefore to all types of market risk factor that
                        affect the portfolio.

                  Please confirm our understanding of the above.

                  Yes, this is correct. The one-year period of stress used for the stressed
                  CVA VaR calculation is the most severe year within the three-year
                  period used for the stressed Effective EPE calculation. This one-year
                  period may, and will probably, be different to the one-year period used
                  for market risk calculations.


50.11 This additional CVA risk capital requirement is the standalone market risk charge,
      calculated on the set of CVAs (as specified in MAR50.3) for all OTC derivatives
      counterparties, collateralised and uncollateralised, together with eligible CVA
      hedges. Within this standalone CVA risk capital requirement, no offset against
      other instruments on the bank’s balance sheet will be permitted (except as
      otherwise expressly provided herein).


       FAQ
       FAQ1       A strict interpretation of MAR50.12 and MAR50.13 suggests that
                  market LGDs (based on bond recovery rates) should be used instead of
                  LGDs that reflect internal experience, potential security packages or
                  other credit enhancement that could be available in the Credit Support
                  Annex or the trade confirmation. Is this strict interpretation intended by
                  the Committee?

                  Yes, market LGDs (LGDMKT) based on market recovery rates are used
                  as inputs into the CVA risk capital requirement calculation. LGDMKT is
                  a market assessment of LGD that is used for pricing the CVA, which
                  might be different from the LGD that is internally determined for the
                  IRB and CCR default risk charge. In other words, LGDMKT needs to be
                  consistent with the derivation of the hazard rates – and therefore must
                  reflect market expectations of recovery rather than mitigants or
                  experience specific to the bank.


50.12 Only hedges used for the purpose of mitigating CVA risk, and managed as such,
      are eligible to be included in the VaR model used to calculate the above CVA
      capital requirement or in the standardised CVA risk capital requirement set forth
      in MAR50.15 and MAR50.16. For example, if a CDS referencing an issuer is in the
      bank’s inventory and that issuer also happens to be an OTC counterparty but the
      CDS is not managed as a hedge of CVA, then such a CDS is not eligible to offset
      the CVA within the standalone VaR calculation of the CVA risk capital
      requirement.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       We seek clarity on the treatment of internal trades and CVA VaR.
                  There is a concern that if a CVA desk buys protection from another
                  desk (within the bank) which faces ”the street” it would not get CVA
                  credit although the CVA VAR would be flat (MAR50.12).

                  Only hedges that are with external counterparties are eligible to reduce
                  CVA. A hedge that is only with an internal desk cannot be used to
                  reduce CVA.


50.13 The only eligible hedges that can be included in the calculation of the CVA risk
      capital requirement under MAR50.3 or MAR50.15 and MAR50.16 are single-name
      CDSs, single-name contingent CDSs, other equivalent hedging instruments
      referencing the counterparty directly, and index CDSs. In case of index CDSs, the
      following restrictions apply:

      (1) The basis between any individual counterparty spread and the spreads of
          index CDS hedges must be reflected in the VaR. This requirement also
          applies to cases where a proxy is used for the spread of a counterparty, since
          idiosyncratic basis still needs to be reflected in such situations. For all
          counterparties with no available spread, the bank must use reasonable basis
          time series out of a representative bucket of similar names for which a
          spread is available.

      (2) If the basis is not reflected to the satisfaction of the supervisor, then the
          bank must reflect only 50% of the notional amount of index hedges in the
          VaR.


      FAQ
      FAQ1        With regard to MAR50.3: we seek confirmation as to whether the risk
                  mitigation available for EE profiles remains unchanged. Specifically,
                  please confirm our understanding that the post risk mitigated exposure
                  values are used in the CVA capital requirement, whilst the additional
                  mitigation is also allowed for the CVA capital requirement itself, via
                  eligible CVA hedges, which is undertaken post any EE mitigation
                  available.

                  The EEs or the EADs used as inputs in the advanced and standardised
                  CVA risk capital requirement must not have been subject to any
                  adjustments arising from credit protection that a firm intends to
                  include as an eligible hedge in the CVA risk capital requirement (see
                  MAR50.12 to MAR50.14). However, the use of other types of credit risk
                  mitigation (eg collateral and/or netting) reducing the EE or the EAD
                  amounts in the CCR framework can be maintained when these EE or
                  EAD feed the CVA risk capital requirement.

      FAQ2        Industry seeks clarification as to whether (i) CDS swaptions are eligible
                  CVA hedge instruments; and if so, (ii) whether both single name and
                  index CDS swaptions are eligible.

                  A CDS swaption can be considered as an equivalent hedging
                  instrument, and therefore CDS swaptions are eligible hedge
                  instruments, in both single-name and index CDS cases, insofar as the
                  contract does not contain a knock-out clause, ie the option contract is


               not terminated following a credit event. As per banks applying the
               advanced CVA risk capital requirement (see MAR50.3 to MAR50.14),
               their VaR model should properly capture the non-linear risk of
               swaptions. As regards banks that use the standardised CVA approach,
               they may apply the delta-adjusted notional to reflect the moneyness of
               the option into the standardised CVA formula.

     FAQ3      Industry seeks further clarifications as to how the following two cases
               of different risk characteristics associated with CVA hedge providers
               should be treated for CVA capital requirement purposes. Is a single
               name CDS (or a basket of CDS that is not tranched) an eligible CVA
               hedge if the entity that provides protection is any kind of special
               purpose entity (SPE), private equity fund, pension fund, or any other
               non-bank financial entity? Does the answer change if the bank is
               providing a liquidity facility or another kind of credit enhancement to
               the protection provider, whereby the bank is effectively exposed to a
               certain tranche of the underlying default risk? (That is, a bank buys
               CDS protection, while an additional transaction or facility is
               transferring a tranche of the default risk back to the bank.) The
               liquidity facility or credit enhancement would be on accrual accounting
               so that no CVA risk is transferred back to the bank via that facility.

               There are no specific restrictions on the protection provider for the
               purposes of the CVA hedges. Eligible CVA hedges can be bought from
               SPEs, private equity funds, pension funds, or other non-bank financial
               entities as long as the general eligibility criteria set by the Basel
               framework (see in particular CRE22.90) are met. If the bank remains
               effectively exposed to a tranche of the underlying default risk by
               providing any form of credit enhancement to the protection provider,
               then the CDS is not an eligible CVA hedge because, in economic
               substance, the transaction becomes a tranched CDS protection,
               regardless of whether the credit enhancement is on accrual accounting.
               All kinds of engagement between the bank and the protection provider
               need to be taken into account in order to determine whether the
               protection is effectively tranched.

     FAQ4      What are the eligible hedges for the CVA volatility charge when a
               transaction has securitisations as underlying and the firm is not
               allowed to use a VaR model to calculate market risk capital for
               securitisations?

               While it is true that banks are not allowed to use a specific risk VaR
               model for securitised products, this is not applicable for CVA capital
               requirement purposes. Different product types of derivatives (including
               securitised products) form expected exposures underpinning CVA to a

               certain counterparty, whereas the eligible hedge instruments apply to
               those credit hedges referencing a bank’s counterparties (via either
               single-name or index). The supervisory approval of the market risk VaR
               model for advanced CVA risk capital requirement purposes should
               apply to specific interest risk VaR, ie a VaR model for debt instruments.
               This VaR can be used to reflect the risk of credit spread changes for
               single-name CDS products, including those referencing debt
               instruments issued by the counterparty. Hence, banks should not
               encounter any issues of calculating the advanced CVA even if the
               regulatory approval for specific risk VaR model for securitised products
               is not available.

     FAQ5      When hedging CVA, given the underlying derivatives portfolio (netting
               sets) is changing over time, excess CDS hedges bought cannot always
               be unwound and are sometimes “cancelled” by selling protection (ie
               the CVA desk is selling protection). The eligible CVA over-hedge is the
               hedge to this protection sold. How is this to be recognised under Basel
               III?

               Since the dedication of CDS-bought protection for the purpose of CVA
               hedging needs to be done explicitly, the same process, documentation
               and controls can be and are expected to be applied for bought
               protection as well by partial unwinding the excess CDS hedges by
               making use of the same instrument via the opposite position; this
               being based on approval of the national supervisor.

               If the national supervisor does not agree to recognise the inclusion of
               sold protection in the framework (standalone portfolio) of CVA
               calculation and CVA hedging, respective trades are treated as any
               other derivative or any CDS that is not part of CVA hedging.

     FAQ6      From MAR50.13, we would like clarification in terms of eligibility of
               hedges. Is a CDS indirectly referencing a counterparty (eg a related
               entity) an eligible hedge? Can you confirm inclusion of sovereigns in
               the CVA capital requirement and ability to use sovereign CDS as
               hedges?

               Any instrument of which the associated payment depends on cross
               default (such as a related entity hedged with a reference entity CDS
               and CDS triggers) is not considered as an eligible hedge. When
               restructuring is not included as a credit event in the CDS contract, for
               the purposes of calculating the advanced CVA capital requirement, the
               CDS will be recognised as in the market risk framework for VaR. For
               the purposes of the Standardised CVA capital requirement, the
               recognition of the CDS hedge will be done according to the



               standardised measurement method in the market risk framework. The
               Committee confirms that sovereigns are included in the CVA capital
               requirement, and sovereign CDS is recognised as an eligible hedge.

     FAQ7      Industry seeks further clarification as to whether a single-name CDS for
               which the bank uses proxies can also be considered as eligible hedges.
               The answer to MAR50.13(FAQ6) states: “Any instrument of which the
               associated payment depends on cross default (such as a related entity
               hedged with a reference entity CDS and CDS triggers) is not considered
               as an eligible hedge.” A question has arisen whether this means that a
               single-name CDS cannot be recognised against an exposure to a
               related counterparty (for example a sovereign CDS against a province
               in the same country) even if the VaR model captures the basis risk
               between the exposure and the hedge, or was this clause aimed at
               instruments other than single-name CDS, that pay out only if there is
               more than one default event.

               Single -ame proxy hedges cannot be recognised in the advanced CVA
               capital requirement, irrespective of whether the basis risk between the
               exposure and the hedge is appropriately captured in the model. In fact,
               MAR50.13 admits as eligible hedges only instruments (such as CDSs
               and contingent CDSs) referencing the counterparty directly or index
               CDSs. As an example, consider an exposure to counterparty B with no
               CDS traded on its name (eg a province within a country) whose spread
               is approximated by that of counterparty A (eg the central government
               of that country). The only eligible hedge of the exposure to
               counterparty B would be an index C containing counterparty A,
               provided the bank can incorporate the basis between C and A into its
               VaR model to the satisfaction of its supervisor.





                  Further, to the extent that single-name proxy hedges are not to be
                  recognised in the advanced CVA capital requirement on one hand, but
                  a proxy spread is required to be used whenever the relevant CDS
                  spread is not available on the other hand, banks should be further
                  noted that they are prohibited from, or should derecognise, over
                  hedging on a single-name level.

                  To illustrate this, in the above example, whenever the bank over
                  hedges its exposure to A, these hedges on A will effectively act as a
                  proxy hedge for the exposure to B; this is true irrespective of whether B
                  is mapped to the CDS spread of A or not. Therefore, the firm should set
                  a cap on the recognition of all single-name hedges.


50.14 Other types of counterparty risk hedges (ie those not listed in MAR50.13) must
      not be reflected within the calculation of the CVA capital requirement, and these
      other hedges must be treated as any other instrument in the bank’s inventory for
      regulatory capital purposes. Tranched or nth-to-default CDSs are not eligible CVA
      hedges. Eligible hedges that are included in the CVA capital requirement must be
      removed from the bank’s market risk capital requirement calculation.




       FAQ
       FAQ1         With respect to identifying eligible hedges to the CVA risk capital
                    requirement, the Basel III provisions state that “tranched or nth-to-
                    default CDSs are not eligible CVA hedges” (MAR50.14). Can the Basel
                    Committee confirm that this does not refer to tranched CDS
                    referencing a bank’s actual counterparty exposures and refers only to
                    tranched index CDS hedges? Also, can the Committee clarify that Risk
                    Protection Agreements, credit-linked notes, short bond positions as
                    CVA hedges, and First Loss on single or baskets of entities can be
                    included as eligible hedges?

                    All tranched or nth-to-default CDS are not eligible. In particular, credit-
                    linked notes and first loss are also not eligible. Single name short bond
                    positions may be eligible hedges if the basis risk is captured. When
                    further clarifications are needed, banks should consult with supervisors.



Standardised CVA risk capital requirement
50.15 When a bank does not have the required approvals to use MAR50.3 to calculate a
      CVA capital requirement for its counterparties, the bank must calculate a portfolio
      capital requirement using the following formula, where:

       (1) h is the one-year risk horizon (in units of a year), h = 1.

       (2) wi is the weight applicable to counterparty i. Counterparty i must be mapped
           to one of the seven weights wi based on its external rating, as shown in the
             table below. When a counterparty does not have an external rating, the bank
             must, subject to supervisory approval, map the internal rating of the
             counterparty to one of the external ratings.

       (3)           is the EAD of counterparty i (summed across its netting sets),
             including the effect of collateral as per the existing IMM or SA-CCR rules as
             applicable to the calculation of counterparty risk capital requirements for
             such counterparty by the bank. For non-IMM banks the exposure should be

             discounted by applying the factor                 . For IMM banks, no such

             discount should be applied as the discount factor is already included in Mi.


     (4) Bi is the notional of purchased single-name CDS hedges (summed if more
         than one position) referencing counterparty i, and used to hedge CVA risk.

         This notional amount should be discounted by applying the factor


                          .


     (5) Bind is the full notional of one or more index CDS of purchased protection,
         used to hedge CVA risk. This notional amount should be discounted by

         applying the factor


     (6) wind is the weight applicable to index hedges. The bank must map indices to
         one of the seven weights wi based on the average spread of index ‘ind’.

     (7) Mi is the effective maturity of the transactions with counterparty ‘i’. For IMM-
         banks, Mi is to be calculated as per CRE53.20. For non-IMM banks, Mi is the
         notional weighted average maturity as referred to in CRE32.44. However, for
         this purpose, Mi should not be capped at 5 years.

     (8) Mihedge is the maturity of the hedge instrument with notional Bi (the
         quantities MihedgexBi are to be summed if these are several positions).

     (9) Mind is the maturity of the index hedge ”ind”. In case of more than one index
         hedge position, it is the notional weighted average maturity.

     (10) For any counterparty that is also a constituent of an index on which a CDS
          is used for hedging CCR, the notional amount attributable to that single
          name (as per its reference entity weight) may, with supervisory approval, be
          subtracted from the index CDS notional amount and treated as a single
          name hedge (Bi) of the individual counterparty with maturity based on the
           maturity of the index.



     FAQ
     FAQ1      MAR50.15 states that, in the case of index CDSs, the following
               restrictions apply: “Mi is the effective maturity of the transactions with
               counterparty i. For IMM banks, Mi is to be calculated as per CRE53.20.
               For non-IMM banks, Mi is the notional weighted average maturity as
               referred to in CRE32.44”. CRE32.41 includes in it a cap which means
               that M will not be greater than 5 years. Can the Basel Committee
               provide clarity on whether this cap still applies for the purpose of
               calculating Mi above?

               For CVA purposes, the 5-year cap of the effective maturity will not be
               applied. This applies to all transactions with the counterparty, not only
               to index CDSs. Maturity will be capped at the longest contractual
               remaining maturity in the netting set.

     FAQ2      MAR50.15(7) talks about effective maturity at a counterparty level. In
               rolling up effective maturity from netting sets to counterparty, do we
               apply the one-year floor first and then do a weighted average by
               notional, or do we calculate the weighted average by notional at
               counterparty level and then apply the floor?

               The 1-year floor applies at a netting set level. If there is more than one
               netting set to the same counterparty, an effective maturity (M) should
               be determined separately for each netting set, the EAD of each netting
               set should be discounted according to its individual maturity and the
               quantities M x EAD should be summed.

     FAQ3      If a bank has more than one CDS contract on the same counterparty,
               the instructions for the standardised CVA capital requirement demand
               a different discounting than in the case of several index CDS. For single-
               name CDS, each contract gets discounted using its individual maturity
               and the quantities M x B are to be summed. In contrast, for index-CDS,
               the full notional (summed over all index contracts) must be discounted
               using the average maturity. Is there a reason for this difference in the
               treatment of single-name vs index hedges?

               For index CDS, the same treatment should be applied as described for
               single-name CDS. That is, each index contract gets discounted using its
               individual maturity and the quantities M x B are to be added.

     FAQ4      In the standardised CVA capital requirement formula, there are
               “weights” for individual counterparties (wi) and for credit indexes (wind). “Weights” wi are uniquely determined by the counterparty’s rating
                  from the table in MAR50.15. How should one determine “weights” wind?

                  Banks should first look through index constituents’ ratings so as to
                  determine the corresponding weight for each constituent, which then
                  should be weight-averaged for determining the weight for the index.


50.16 The weights referenced in MAR50.15 above are set out in the following table, and
      are based on the external rating of the counterparty:

                         Rating                                   Weight wi


                          AAA                                       0.7%

                           AA                                       0.7%

                           A                                        0.8%

                          BBB                                       1.0%

                           BB                                       2.0%

                           B                                        3.0%

                          CCC                                      10.0%



The notations follow the methodology used by one institution,
                  Standard & Poor’s. The use of Standard & Poor’s credit ratings is an
                  example only; those of some other approved external credit assessment
                  institutions could be used on an equivalent basis. The ratings used
                  throughout this document, therefore, do not express any preferences or
                  determinations on external assessment institutions by the Committee.


                                 MAR99
                                 Application guidance
                                 This chapter describes the stress testing required
                                 by banks using the comprehensive risk
                                 modelling approach to calculate specific risk
                                 capital charges for the correlation trading
                                 portfolio and a supervisory framework for
                                 backtesting under the internal models approach.


                              

Stress testing guidance for the correlation trading portfolio
99.1   The goal of the stress testing standards described in MAR99.2 to MAR99.18 is to
       provide estimates of the mark-to-market (MTM) changes that would be
       experienced by the current correlation trading portfolio (CTP) in the event of
       credit-related shocks. The standards encompass both prescribed regulatory stress
       scenarios and high-level principles governing a bank’s internal stress testing. The
       prescribed scenarios are not intended to capture all potential sources of stress.
       Rather, their primary focus is on valuation changes involving large, broad-based
       movements in spreads for single-name bonds and credit default swaps, such as
       could accompany major systemic financial or macroeconomic shocks, and
       associated spillovers to prices for index and bespoke tranches and other complex
       correlation positions. In addition to the prescribed scenarios, a bank is expected
       to implement a rigorous internal stress testing process to address other potential
       correlation trading risks, including bank-specific risks related to its underlying
       business model and hedging strategies.


Prescribed stress tests: historical reference periods

99.2   The prescribed stress scenarios below are framed in terms of risk factor
       movements affecting credit spreads over specific historical reference periods. The
       term ‘risk factor’ encompasses any parameter or input within the pricing model
       that can vary over time. Examples include, but are not limited to, single-name risk-
       neutral default rates/intensities, recovery rates; market-implied correlations for
       index tranches; parameters used to infer market-implied correlations for bespoke
       tranches from those for index tranches; index-single name basis risks; and index-
       tranche basis risks.

99.3   The prescribed stress tests refer to specific historical reference periods. These
       periods correspond to historical intervals of three-months or less over which
       spreads for single-name and tranched credit products have exhibited very large,
       broad based increases or decreases. As described more fully in MAR99.4 to
       MAR99.15, for each stress test the historical reference period is used to calibrate
       the sizes of the assumed shocks to credit-related risk factors. This approach to
       calibrating the sizes of shocks is intended to accommodate the wide range of
       pricing models observed in practice.

99.4   The specific historical reference periods are as follows:



       (1) Periods of sharply rising credit spreads

           (a) 4 June 2007 through 30 July 2007;

           (b) 10 December 2007 through 10 March 2008;

           (c)   8 September 2008 through 5 December 2008.

       (2) Periods of sharply falling credit spreads

           (a) 14 March 2008 through 13 June 2008;

           (b) 12 March 2009 through 11 June 2009.

99.5   In the future, the Committee may modify the historical reference periods
       specified in MAR99.4, or specify additional reference periods, as it deems
       appropriate in light of developments in correlation trading markets. In addition,
       at their discretion national supervisors may require banks to perform stress tests
       based on additional reference periods, or may require additional stress tests
       based on methodologies different from those described herein.


Prescribed stress tests: Historical stress tests

99.6   For each historical reference period, several stress tests are to be undertaken.
       Each stress scenario involves replicating historical movements in all credit-related
       risk factors over the reference period. In these exercises, only credit-related risk
       factors are shocked; for example, non-credit-related risk factors driving default-
       free term structures of interest rates and foreign exchange rates should be fixed
       at current levels.

99.7   This description presumes that the bank’s pricing model can be used to
       decompose historical movements in credit spreads into changes in risk factors. If
       the pricing model does not take this form explicitly, the bank will need to
       translate the stress scenarios into equivalent risk factor representations that are
       compatible with the structure of its pricing model. As with all aspects of the
       standards set forth in this guidance, such translations should be made in
       consultation with supervisors and are subject to supervisory approval.


Prescribed stress tests: Jumps to default


99.8   The preceding stress scenarios encompass changes in credit spreads, but abstract
       from defaults of individual firms. The final set of stress tests incorporates
       assumptions of actual defaults into the sector shock scenarios. For each historical
       scenario in MAR99.6, four jump-to-default (JTD) stress tests should be performed.
       In the first, the bank should assume an instantaneous JTD with zero recovery of

       that corporate name in the current CTP having the largest JTD01 measure. In the
       second stress test the bank should assume JTDs with zero recovery of the two
       corporate names having the largest JTD01 measures. Similarly, in the third
       (fourth) stress test, the bank should assume JTDs with zero recovery of the three
       (four) corporate names having the largest JTD01 measures. (JTD01 is defined as
       the estimated decline in the MTM value of the CTP portfolio associated with a
       JTD of that entity, assuming a zero recovery rate for the entity’s liabilities.)


Prescribed stress tests: Additional technical guidance

99.9   A given historical reference period is identified by its start date (t) and end date
       (t+M).

99.10 When calculating movements in risk factors over the historical reference period,
      the values of risk factors on dates t and t+M should be calibrated to be
      consistent with the bank’s current pricing model and with actual market prices on
      those days.

99.11 In carrying out the stress tests, the bank’s methodology should reflect the current
      credit quality of specific names, rather than the name’s credit quality during the
      historical reference period. For example, if the current credit quality of a particular
      firm is worse than during the historical reference period, the shocks to risk factors
      for that firm should be consistent with those for similar quality firms over the
      reference period. Subject to supervisory approval, proxies for credit quality may
      be based on external ratings, implied ratings from credit spreads, or possibly
      other methods.

99.12 The current CTP’s stressed MTM loss should be calculated as the difference
      between its current MTM value and its stressed MTM value.

99.13 MTM values should be based on full portfolio revaluation (eg no delta
      approximations).

99.14 Stress tests should be performed under the following assumptions. This
      treatment presumes that each stress scenario generates price effects that are
      internally consistent (eg positive spreads, no arbitrage opportunities). If this is not
      the case, a simple rescaling of certain risk factors may address the issue (eg a re-
      parameterisation to ensure that implied correlations and risk-neutral default rates
      and recoveries remain bounded between zero and one).

       (1) Portfolio positions are held static at their current levels (eg no recognition of
           dynamic hedging within the period).

       (2) All credit-related risk factors are instantaneously shocked.

       (3) Risk factors not directly related to credit risk (eg foreign exchange rates,
           commodity prices, risk-free term structures of interest rates, etc.) are fixed at
           current levels.

       (4) In general, within the prescribed stress tests, the difference between the
           shocked value and the current value of each risk factor should be set equal
           to its absolute (as opposed to relative) change between dates t and t+M.
           Exceptions are to be approved by the supervisor.

99.15 In cases where the historical value of a risk factor at date t or t+M is not known
      (perhaps because the current pricing model differs from that used over the
      interval t to t+M), the risk factor value will need to be ‘backfilled’. Subject to
      supervisory approval, the backfilling method used by the bank should be
      consistent with the current pricing model and observed historical prices at t and
      t+M.


Internal stress testing

99.16 In addition to the prescribed stress tests set forth in MAR99.2 through MAR99.15,
      banks applying the comprehensive risk measure approach are expected to
      implement a rigorous internal stress testing process for the CTP. Subject to
      supervisory review, a bank’s internal stress testing for the CTP should identify
      stress scenarios and then assess the effects of the scenarios on the MTM value of
      the CTP. The framework is intended to be flexible. Scenarios may be historical,
      hypothetical, or model-based, and may be deterministic or stochastic. Key
      variables specified in a scenario may include, for example, default rates, recovery
      rates, credit spreads, and correlations, or they might focus directly on price
      changes for CTP positions. A bank may choose to have scenarios apply to the
      entire correlation trading portfolio, or it may identify scenarios specific to sub-
      portfolios of the correlation trading portfolio.

99.17 The internal stress tests should be economically meaningful, taking into account
      the current composition of the CTP, the bank’s business model for this desk, and
      the nature of its hedging activities. The form and severity of the stress scenarios
      should be developed with an eye toward their applicability to the unique
      characteristics (and vulnerabilities) of the current CTP including, but not limited
      to, concentration risks associated with particular geographic regions, economic
      sectors, and individual corporate names.



99.18

        Taking into account the specific nature of the bank’s CTP, the internal stress tests
        should not be limited to the historical reference periods used for the prescribed
        stress tests described in MAR99.2 through MAR99.15. The bank should consider
        relevant historical experience over other time intervals, as well, including periods
        within, around, or subsequent to the historical reference periods specified in
        MAR99.4.


Supervisory framework for the use of “backtesting” in conjunction
with the internal models approach to market risk capital requirements
99.19 This section elaborates the requirements of MAR30.16 for incorporating
      backtesting into the internal models approach to market risk capital
      requirements. The aim of this framework is the promotion of more rigorous
      approaches to backtesting and the supervisory interpretation of backtesting
      results.

99.20 Many banks that have adopted an internal model-based approach to market risk
      measurement routinely compare daily profits and losses with model-generated
      risk measures to gauge the quality and accuracy of their risk measurement
      systems. This process, known as “backtesting”, has been found useful by many
      institutions as they have developed and introduced their risk measurement
      models.

99.21 The essence of all backtesting efforts is the comparison of actual trading results
      with model-generated risk measures. If this comparison is close enough, the
      backtest raises no issues regarding the quality of the risk measurement model. In
      some cases, however, the comparison uncovers sufficient differences that
      problems almost certainly must exist, either with the model or with the
      assumptions of the backtest. In between these two cases is a grey area where the
      test results are, on their own, inconclusive.


Description of the backtesting framework

99.22 The backtesting framework developed by the Committee is based on that
      adopted by many of the banks that use internal market risk measurement
      models. These backtesting programs typically consist of a periodic comparison of
      the bank’s daily value-at-risk measures with the subsequent daily profit or loss
      (“trading outcome”). The value-at-risk measures are intended to be larger than all
      but a certain fraction of the trading outcomes, where that fraction is determined
      by the confidence level of the value-at-risk measure. Comparing the risk
      measures with the trading outcomes simply means that the bank counts the
      number of times that the risk measures were larger than the trading outcome.
       The fraction actually covered can then be compared with the intended level of
       coverage to gauge the performance of the bank’s risk model. In some cases, this
       last step is relatively informal, although there are a number of statistical tests that
       may also be applied. The supervisory framework for backtesting in MAR99.19 to
       MAR99.69 involves all of these steps, and attempts to set out as consistent an
       interpretation of each step as is feasible without imposing unnecessary burdens.

99.23 Under the value-at-risk framework, the risk measure is an estimate of the amount
      that could be lost on a set of positions due to general market movements over a
      given holding period, measured using a specified confidence level. The backtests
      to be applied compare whether the observed percentage of outcomes covered
      by the risk measure is consistent with a 99% level of confidence. That is, they
      attempt to determine if a bank’s 99th percentile risk measures truly cover 99% of
      the firm’s trading outcomes.

99.24 An additional consideration in specifying the appropriate risk measures and
      trading outcomes for backtesting arises because the value-at-risk approach to
      risk measurement is generally based on the sensitivity of a static portfolio to
      instantaneous price shocks. That is, end-of-day trading positions are input into
      the risk measurement model, which assesses the possible change in the value of
      this static portfolio due to price and rate movements over the assumed holding
      period.

99.25 While this is straightforward in theory, in practice it complicates the issue of
      backtesting. For instance, it is often argued that value-at-risk measures cannot be
      compared against actual trading outcomes, since the actual outcomes will
      inevitably be “contaminated” by changes in portfolio composition during the
      holding period. According to this view, the inclusion of fee income together with
      trading gains and losses resulting from changes in the composition of the
      portfolio should not be included in the definition of the trading outcome because
      they do not relate to the risk inherent in the static portfolio that was assumed in
      constructing the value-at-risk measure.

99.26 This argument is persuasive with regard to the use of value-at-risk measures
      based on price shocks calibrated to longer holding periods. That is, comparing
      the ten-day, 99th percentile risk measures from the internal models capital
       requirement with actual ten-day trading outcomes would probably not be a
       meaningful exercise. In particular, in any given ten day period, significant changes
       in portfolio composition relative to the initial positions are common at major
       trading institutions. For this reason, the backtesting framework described here
       involves the use of risk measures calibrated to a one-day holding period. Other
       than the restrictions mentioned in this paper, the test would be based on how
       banks model risk internally.

99.27 Given the use of one-day risk measures, it is appropriate to employ one-day
      trading outcomes as the benchmark to use in the backtesting program. The same
      concerns about “contamination” of the trading outcomes discussed above
      continue to be relevant, however, even for one-day trading outcomes. That is,
      there is a concern that the overall one-day trading outcome is not a suitable
      point of comparison, because it reflects the effects of intra-day trading, possibly
      including fee income that is booked in connection with the sale of new products.

99.28 On the one hand, intra-day trading will tend to increase the volatility of trading
      outcomes, and may result in cases where the overall trading outcome exceeds
      the risk measure. This event clearly does not imply a problem with the methods
      used to calculate the risk measure; rather, it is simply outside the scope of what
      the value-at-risk method is intended to capture. On the other hand, including fee
      income may similarly distort the backtest, but in the other direction, since fee
      income often has annuity-like characteristics.

99.29 Since this fee income is not typically included in the calculation of the risk
      measure, problems with the risk measurement model could be masked by
      including fee income in the definition of the trading outcome used for
      backtesting purposes.

99.30 Some have argued that the actual trading outcomes experienced by the bank are
      the most important and relevant figures for risk management purposes, and that
      the risk measures should be benchmarked against this reality, even if the
      assumptions behind their calculations are limited in this regard. Others have also
      argued that the issue of fee income can be addressed sufficiently, albeit crudely,
      by simply removing the mean of the trading outcomes from their time series
      before performing the backtests. A more sophisticated approach would involve a
      detailed attribution of income by source, including fees, spreads, market
      movements, and intra-day trading results.



99.31 To the extent that the backtesting program is viewed purely as a statistical test of
      the integrity of the calculation of the value-at-risk measure, it is clearly most
      appropriate to employ a definition of daily trading outcome that allows for an

       “uncontaminated” test. To meet this standard, banks should develop the
       capability to perform backtests based on the hypothetical changes in portfolio
       value that would occur were end-of-day positions to remain unchanged.

99.32 Backtesting using actual daily profits and losses is also a useful exercise since it
      can uncover cases where the risk measures are not accurately capturing trading
      volatility in spite of being calculated with integrity.

99.33 For these reasons, the Committee urges banks to develop the capability to
      perform backtests using both hypothetical and actual trading outcomes.
      Although national supervisors may differ in the emphasis that they wish to place
      on these different approaches to backtesting, it is clear that each approach has
      value. In combination, the two approaches are likely to provide a strong
      understanding of the relation between calculated risk measures and trading
      outcomes.

99.34 The next step in specifying the backtesting program concerns the nature of the
      backtest itself, and the frequency with which it is to be performed. The framework
      adopted by the Committee, which is also the most straightforward procedure for
      comparing the risk measures with the trading outcomes, is simply to calculate the
      number of times that the trading outcomes are not covered by the risk measures
      (“exceptions”). For example, over 200 trading days, a 99% daily risk measure
      should cover, on average, 198 of the 200 trading outcomes, leaving two
      exceptions.

99.35 With regard to the frequency of the backtest, the desire to base the backtest on
      as many observations as possible must be balanced against the desire to perform
      the test on a regular basis. The backtesting framework to be applied entails a
      formal testing and accounting of exceptions on a quarterly basis using the most
      recent twelve months of data.

99.36 Using the most recent twelve months of data yields approximately 250 daily
      observations for the purposes of backtesting. The national supervisor will use the
      number of exceptions (out of 250) generated by the bank’s model as the basis for
      a supervisory response. In many cases, there will be no response. In other cases,
      the supervisor may initiate a dialogue with the bank to determine if there is a
      problem with a bank’s model. In the most serious cases, the supervisor may
      impose an increase in a bank’s capital requirement or disallow use of the model.



99.37 The appeal of using the number of exceptions as the primary reference point in
      the backtesting process is the simplicity and straightforwardness of this
      approach. From a statistical point of view, using the number of exceptions as the
       basis for appraising a bank’s model requires relatively few strong assumptions. In
       particular, the primary assumption is that each day’s test (exception/no
       exception) is independent of the outcome of any of the others.

99.38 The Committee of course recognises that tests of this type are limited in their
      power to distinguish an accurate model from an inaccurate model. To a
      statistician, this means that it is not possible to calibrate the test so that it
      correctly signals all the problematic models without giving false signals of trouble
      at many others. This limitation has been a prominent consideration in the design
      of the framework presented here, and should also be prominent among the
      considerations of national supervisors in interpreting the results of a bank’s
      backtesting program. However, the Committee does not view this limitation as a
      decisive objection to the use of backtesting. Rather, conditioning supervisory
      standards on a clear framework, though limited and imperfect, is seen as
      preferable to a purely judgmental standard or one with no incentive features
      whatsoever.


Supervisory framework for the interpretation of backtesting results

99.39 It is with the statistical limitations of backtesting in mind that the Committee is
      introducing a framework for the supervisory interpretation of backtesting results
      that encompasses a range of possible responses, depending on the strength of
      the signal generated from the backtest. These responses are classified into three
      zones, distinguished by colours into a hierarchy of responses. The green zone
      corresponds to backtesting results that do not themselves suggest a problem
      with the quality or accuracy of a bank’s model. The yellow zone encompasses
      results that do raise questions in this regard, but where such a conclusion is not
      definitive. The red zone indicates a backtesting result that almost certainly
      indicates a problem with a bank’s risk model.

99.40 These zones are defined in respect of the number of exceptions generated in the
      backtesting program as set forth in MAR99.41 to MAR99.69. To place these
      definitions in proper perspective, however, it is useful to examine the
      probabilities of obtaining various numbers of exceptions under different
      assumptions about the accuracy of a bank’s risk measurement model.

99.41 Three zones have been delineated and their boundaries chosen in order to
      balance two types of statistical error:



       (1) the possibility that an accurate risk model would be classified as inaccurate
           on the basis of its backtesting result, and

       (2) the possibility that an inaccurate model would not be classified that way
           based on its backtesting result.

99.42 Table 1 in MAR99.45 reports the probabilities of obtaining a particular number of
      exceptions from a sample of 250 independent observations under several
      assumptions about the actual percentage of outcomes that the model captures
      (that is, these are binomial probabilities). For example, the left-hand portion of
      Table 1 reports probabilities associated with an accurate model (that is, a true
      coverage level of 99%). Under these assumptions, the column labelled “exact”
      reports that exactly five exceptions can be expected in 6.7% of the samples. The
      right-hand portion of Table 1 reports probabilities associated with several
      possible inaccurate models, namely models whose true levels of coverage are
      98%, 97%, 96%, and 95%, respectively. Thus, the column labelled “exact” under an
      assumed coverage level of 97% shows that five exceptions would then be
      expected in 10.9% of the samples.

99.43 Table 1 also reports several important error probabilities. For the assumption that
      the model covers 99% of outcomes (the desired level of coverage), the table
      reports the probability that selecting a given number of exceptions as a threshold
      for rejecting the accuracy of the model will result in an erroneous rejection of an
      accurate model (“type 1” error). For example, if the threshold is set as low as one
      exception, then accurate models will be rejected fully 91.9% of the time, because
      they will escape rejection only in the 8.1% of cases where they generate zero
      exceptions. As the threshold number of exceptions is increased, the probability of
      making this type of error declines.

99.44 Under the assumptions that the model’s true level of coverage is not 99%, Table
      1 reports the probability that selecting a given number of exceptions as a
      threshold for rejecting the accuracy of the model will result in an erroneous
      acceptance of a model with the assumed (inaccurate) level of coverage (“type 2”
      error). For example, if the model’s actual level of coverage is 97%, and the
      threshold for rejection is set at seven or more exceptions, the table indicates that
      this model would be erroneously accepted 37.5% of the time.



99.45 In interpreting the information in Table 1, it is also important to understand that
      although the alternative models appear close to the desired standard in
      probability terms (97% is close to 99%), the difference between these models in
      terms of the size of the risk measures generated can be substantial. That is, a
      bank's risk measure could be substantially less than that of an accurate model
      and still cover 97% of the trading outcomes. For example, in the case of normally
      distributed trading outcomes, the 97th percentile corresponds to 1.88 standard
      deviations, while the 99th percentile corresponds to 2.33 standard deviations, an

       increase of nearly 25%. Thus, the supervisory desire to distinguish between
       models providing 99% coverage, and those providing say, 97% coverage, is a very
       real one.



     Probabilities of exceptions                                                                                      Table 1


                           Model is accurate           Model is inaccurate: possible alternative levels of coverage

      Exceptions (out
                           Coverage = 99%      Coverage = 98%     Coverage = 97%        Coverage = 96%       Coverage = 95%
          of 250)

                           Exact   Type 1      Exact   Type 2      Exact     Type 2     Exact     Type 2      Exact   Type 2

             0             8.1 %    100.0%     0.6%     0.0%       0.0%       0.0 %     0.0 %      0.0 %     0.0 %    0.0 %

             1            20.5 %     91.9 %    3.3%     0.6%       0.4%     0.0 %       0.0 %      0.0 %     0.0 %    0.0 %

             2            25.7 %     71.4 %    8.3%     3.9%       1.5%       0.4 %     0.2 %      0.0 %     0.0 %    0.0 %

             3            21.5 %     45.7 %    14.0%   12.2%       3.8%       1.9 %     0.7 %      0.2 %    0.1 %     0.0 %

             4            13.4 %     24.2 %    17.7%   26.2%       7.2%       5.7 %     1.8 %      0.9 %     0.3 %    0.1 %

             5             6.7%      10.8 %    17.7%   43.9%     10.9%       12.8 %     3.6 %      2.7 %     0.9 %    0.5 %

             6             2.7 %     4.1 %     14.8%   61.6%      13.8%      23.7 %     6.2 %      6.3 %     1.8 %    1.3 %

             7             1.0 %     1.4 %     10.5%   76.4%      14.9%      37.5 %     9.0 %     12.5 %     3.4 %    3.1 %

             8             0.3 %     0.4 %     6.5%    86.9%      14.0%      52.4 %     11.3 %    21.5 %     5.4 %    6.5 %

             9             0.1 %     0.1 %     3.6%    93.4%      11.6%      66.3 %     12.7 %    32.8 %     7.6 %    11.9 %


            10           0.0 %      0.0 %      1.8%      97.0%       8.6%     77.9 %    12.8 %    45.5 %    9.6 %    19.5 %

            11           0.0 %      0.0 %      0.8%      98.7%       5.8%     86.6 %    11.6 %    58.3 %   11.1 %    29.1 %

            12           0.0 %      0.0 %      0.3%      99.5%       3.6%     92.4 %    9.6 %     69.9 %   11.6 %    40.2 %

            13           0.0 %      0.0 %      0.1%      99.8%       2.0%     96.0 %    7.3 %     79.5 %   11.2 %    51.8 %

            14           0.0 %      0.0 %      0.0%      99.9%       1.1%     98.0 %    5.2 %     86.9 %   10.0 %    62.9 %

            15           0.0 %      0.0 %      0.0%     100.0%       0.5%     99.1%      3.4%     92.1%     8.2%     72.9%

     The table reports both exact probabilities of obtaining a certain number of exceptions from a sample of 250 independent
     observations under several assumptions about the true level of coverage, as well as type 1 or type 2 error probabilities
     derived from these exact probabilities as set out in MAR99.41 to MAR99.45.


99.46 The results in Table 1 also demonstrate some of the statistical limitations of
      backtesting. In particular, there is no threshold number of exceptions that yields
      both a low probability of erroneously rejecting an accurate model and a low
      probability of erroneously accepting all of the relevant inaccurate models. It is for
      this reason that the Committee has rejected an approach that contains only a
      single threshold.

99.47 Given these limitations, the Committee has classified outcomes into three
      categories. In the first category, the test results are consistent with an accurate
      model, and the possibility of erroneously accepting an inaccurate model is low
      (green zone). At the other extreme, the test results are extremely unlikely to have
      resulted from an accurate model, and the probability of erroneously rejecting an
      accurate model on this basis is remote (red zone). In between these two cases,
      however, is a zone where the backtesting results could be consistent with either
      accurate or inaccurate models, and the supervisor should encourage a bank to
      present additional information about its model before taking action (yellow zone).

99.48 Table 2 below sets out the Committee’s agreed boundaries for these zones and
      the presumptive supervisory response for each backtesting outcome, based on a
      sample of 250 observations. For other sample sizes, the boundaries should be
      deduced by calculating the binomial probabilities associated with true coverage
      of 99%, as in Table 1. The yellow zone begins at the point such that the
      cumulative probabilities, that is the probability of obtaining that number or fewer
      exceptions, equals or exceeds 95%. Table 2 reports these cumulative probabilities
      for each number of exceptions. For 250 observations, it can be seen that five or
      fewer exceptions will be obtained 95.88% of the time when the true level of
      coverage is 99%. Thus, the yellow zone begins at five exceptions.

99.49 Similarly, the beginning of the red zone is defined as the point such that the
      probability of obtaining that number or fewer exceptions equals or exceeds
      99.99%. Table 2 shows that for a sample of 250 observations and a true coverage
      level of 99%, this occurs with ten exceptions.




     Definition of green, yellow and red zones                                            Table 2


                                Number of              Plus to the             Cumulative
            Zone
                                exceptions         multiplication factor       probability

     Green zone                      0                     0.00                   8.11%

                                     1                     0.00                  28.58%

                                     2                     0.00                  54.32%

                                     3                     0.00                  75.81%


                                     4                     0.00                  89.22%

     Yellow zone                     5                     0.40                  95.88%

                                     6                     0.50                  98.63%

                                     7                     0.65                  99.60%

                                     8                     0.75                  99.89%

                                     9                     0.85                  99.97%

     Red zone                    10 or more                1.00                  99.99%

     The table defines the green, yellow and red zones that supervisors will use to assess
     backtesting results in conjunction with the internal models approach to market risk capital
     requirements. The boundaries shown in the table are based on a sample of 250
     observations. For other sample sizes, the yellow zone begins at the point where the
     cumulative probability equals or exceeds 95%, and the red zone begins at the point where
     the cumulative probability equals or exceeds 99.99% as set out in MAR99.48 and MAR99.49.

     Plus to the multiplication factor ranges from zero to one based on the outcome of the
     backtesting as set out in MAR30.16 and MAR99.51 to MAR99.65.

     Note that these cumulative probabilities and the type 1 error probabilities reported in
     Table 1 do not sum to one because the cumulative probability for a given number of
     exceptions includes the possibility of obtaining exactly that number of exceptions, as does
     the type 1 error probability. Thus, the sum of these two probabilities exceeds one by the
     amount of the probability of obtaining exactly that number of exceptions.



99.50 The green zone needs little explanation. Since a model that truly provides 99%
      coverage would be quite likely to produce as many as four exceptions in a sample
      of 250 outcomes, there is little reason for concern raised by backtesting results
      that fall in this range. This is reinforced by the results in Table 1, which indicate
       that accepting outcomes in this range leads to only a small chance of erroneously
       accepting an inaccurate model.

99.51 The range from five to nine exceptions constitutes the yellow zone. Outcomes in
      this range are plausible for both accurate and inaccurate models, although Table
      1 suggests that they are generally more likely for inaccurate models than for
      accurate models. Moreover, the results in Table 1 indicate that the presumption
      that the model is inaccurate should grow as the number of exceptions increases
      in the range from five to nine.

99.52 Within the yellow zone, the number of exceptions should generally guide the size
      of potential supervisory increases in a firm’s capital requirement. Table 2 sets out
      the guidelines for the value of the ”plus” factor in the multiplication factors
      applicable to the internal models capital requirement as set out in MAR30.16,
      resulting from backtesting results in the yellow zone. These guidelines help in
      maintaining the appropriate structure of incentives applicable to the internal
      models approach. In particular, the potential supervisory penalty increases with
      the number of exceptions. The results in Table 1 generally support the notion that
      nine exceptions is a more troubling result than five exceptions, and these steps
      are meant to reflect that.

99.53 These particular values reflect the general idea that the increase in the
      multiplication factor should be sufficient to return the model to a 99th percentile
      standard. For example, five exceptions in a sample of 250 implies only 98%
      coverage. Thus, the increase in the multiplication factor should be sufficient to
      transform a model with 98% coverage into one with 99% coverage. Needless to
      say, precise calculations of this sort require additional statistical assumptions that
      are not likely to hold in all cases. For example, if the distribution of trading
      outcomes is assumed to be normal, then the ratio of the 99th percentile to the
      98th percentile is approximately 1.14, and the increase needed in the
      multiplication factor is therefore approximately 0.40 for a scaling factor of 3. If the
      actual distribution is not normal, but instead has “fat tails”, then larger increases
      may be required to reach the 99th percentile standard. The concern about fat
      tails was also an important factor in the choice of the specific increments set out
      in Table 2.



99.54 It is important to stress, however, that these increases are not meant to be purely
      automatic. The results in Table 1 indicate that results in the yellow zone do not
      always imply an inaccurate model, and the Committee has no interest in
      penalising banks solely for bad luck. Nevertheless, to keep the incentives aligned
      properly, backtesting results in the yellow zone should generally be presumed to
       imply an increase in the multiplication factor unless the bank can demonstrate
       that such an increase is not warranted.

99.55 In other words, the burden of proof in these situations should not be on the
      supervisor to prove that a problem exists, but rather should be on the bank to
      prove that their model is fundamentally sound. In such a situation, there are
      many different types of additional information that might be relevant to an
      assessment of the bank’s model.

99.56 For example, it would then be particularly valuable to see the results of backtests
      covering disaggregated subsets of the bank’s overall trading activities. Many
      banks that engage in regular backtesting programs break up their overall trading
      portfolio into trading units organised around risk factors or product categories.
      Disaggregating in this fashion could allow the tracking of a problem that surfaced
      at the aggregate level back to its source at the level of a specific trading unit or
      risk model.

99.57 Banks should also document all of the exceptions generated from their ongoing
      backtesting program, including an explanation for the exception. This
      documentation is important to determining an appropriate supervisory response
      to a backtesting result in the yellow zone. Banks may also implement backtesting
      for confidence intervals other than the 99th percentile, or may perform other
      statistical tests not considered here. Naturally, this information could also prove
      very helpful in assessing their model.

99.58 In practice, there are several possible explanations for a backtesting exception,
      some of which go to the basic integrity of the model, some of which suggest an
      under-specified or low-quality model, and some of which suggest either bad luck
      or poor intra-day trading results. Classifying the exceptions generated by a bank’s
      model into these categories can be a very useful exercise.

       (1) Basic integrity of the model:

           (a) The bank’s systems simply are not capturing the risk of the positions
               themselves (eg the positions of an overseas office are being reported
               incorrectly).

           (b) Model volatilities and/or correlations were calculated incorrectly (eg the
               computer is dividing by 250 when it should be dividing by 225).


       (2) Model’s accuracy could be improved:

           The risk measurement model is not assessing the risk of some instruments
           with sufficient precision (eg too few maturity buckets or an omitted spread).

       (3) Bad luck or markets moved in fashion unanticipated by the model:

           (a) Random chance (a very low probability event).

           (b) Markets moved by more than the model predicted was likely (i.e.
               volatility was significantly higher than expected).

           (c)   Markets did not move together as expected (i.e. correlations were
                 significantly different than what was assumed by the model).

       (4) Intraday trading: There was a large (and money-losing) change in the bank’s
           positions or some other income event between the end of the first day
           (when the risk estimate was calculated) and the end of the second day (when
           trading results were tabulated).

99.59 In general, problems relating to the basic integrity of the risk measurement
      model are potentially the most serious. If there are exceptions attributed to this
      category for a particular trading unit, the plus should apply. In addition, the
      model may be in need of substantial review and/or adjustment, and the
      supervisor would be expected to take appropriate action to ensure that this
      occurs.

99.60 The second category of problem (lack of model precision) is one that can be
      expected to occur at least part of the time with most risk measurement models.
      No model can hope to achieve infinite precision, and thus all models involve
      some amount of approximation. If, however, a particular bank’s model appears
      more prone to this type of problem than others, the supervisor should impose
      the plus factor and also consider what other incentives are needed to spur
      improvements.

99.61 The third category of problems (markets moved in a fashion unanticipated by the
      model) should also be expected to occur at least some of the time with value-at-
      risk models. In particular, even an accurate model is not expected to cover 100%
      of trading outcomes. Some exceptions are surely the random 1% that the model
      can be expected not to cover. In other cases, the behaviour of the markets may
      shift so that previous estimates of volatility and correlation are less appropriate.
      No value-at-risk model will be immune from this type of problem; it is inherent in
      the reliance on past market behaviour as a means of gauging the risk of future
      market movements.


99.62 Finally, depending on the definition of trading outcomes employed for the
      purpose of backtesting, exceptions could also be generated by intra-day trading
      results or an unusual event in trading income other than from positioning.
      Although exceptions for these reasons would not necessarily suggest a problem
      with the bank’s value-at-risk model, they could still be cause for supervisory
      concern and the imposition of the plus should be considered.

99.63 The extent to which a trading outcome exceeds the risk measure is another
      relevant piece of information. All else equal, exceptions generated by trading
      outcomes far in excess of the risk measure are a matter of greater concern than
      are outcomes only slightly larger than the risk measure.

99.64 In deciding whether or not to apply increases in a bank’s capital requirement, it is
      envisioned that the supervisor could weigh these factors as well as others,
      including an appraisal of the bank’s compliance with applicable qualitative
      standards of risk management. Based on the additional information provided by
      the bank, the supervisor will decide on the appropriate course of action.

99.65 In general, the imposition of a higher capital requirement for outcomes in the
      yellow zone is an appropriate response when the supervisor believes the reason
      for being in the yellow zone is a correctable problem in a bank’s model. This can
      be contrasted with the case of an unexpected bout of high market volatility,
      which nearly all models may fail to predict. While these episodes may be stressful,
      they do not necessarily indicate that a bank’s risk model is in need of redesign.
      Finally, in the case of severe problems with the basic integrity of the model, the
      supervisor should consider whether to disallow the use of the model for capital
      purposes altogether.

99.66 Finally, in contrast to the yellow zone where the supervisor may exercise
      judgement in interpreting the backtesting results, outcomes in the red zone (ten
      or more exceptions) should generally lead to an automatic presumption that a
      problem exists with a bank’s model. This is because it is extremely unlikely that an
      accurate model would independently generate ten or more exceptions from a
      sample of 250 trading outcomes.

99.67 In general, therefore, if a bank’s model falls into the red zone, the supervisor
      should automatically increase the multiplication factor applicable to a firm’s
      model by one (from three to four). Needless to say, the supervisor should also
      begin investigating the reasons why the bank’s model produced such a large
      number of misses, and should require the bank to begin work on improving its
      model immediately.



99.68 Although ten exceptions is a very high number for 250 observations, there will on
      very rare occasions be a valid reason why an accurate model will produce so
      many exceptions. In particular, when financial markets are subjected to a major
      regime shift, many volatilities and correlations can be expected to shift as well,
      perhaps substantially. Unless a bank is prepared to update its volatility and
      correlation estimates instantaneously, such a regime shift could generate a
      number of exceptions in a short period of time. In essence, however, these
      exceptions would all be occurring for the same reason, and therefore the
      appropriate supervisory reaction might not be the same as if there were ten
      exceptions, but each from a separate incident. For example, one possible
      supervisory response in this instance would be to simply require the bank’s
      model to take account of the regime shift as quickly as it can while maintaining
      the integrity of its procedures for updating the model.

99.69 It should be stressed, however, that the Committee believes that this exception
      should be allowed only under the most extraordinary circumstances, and that it is
      committed to an automatic and non-discretionary increase in a bank’s capital
      requirement for backtesting results that fall into the red zone.




                                 OPE
                                 Calculation of RWA for
                                 operational risk
                                 This standard describes how to calculate capital
                                 requirements for operational risk.




                                 OPE10
                                 Definitions and application
                                 This chapter defines operational risk and
                                 introduces the methodologies available for
                                 calculating operational risk capital requirements.


                              Introduction
10.1   Operational risk is defined as the risk of loss resulting from inadequate or failed
       internal processes, people and systems or from external events. This definition
       includes legal risk, but excludes strategic and reputational risk.


 Legal risk includes, but is not limited to, exposure to fines, penalties, or
                   punitive damages resulting from supervisory actions, as well as private
                   settlements.


10.2   The framework outlined in this standard presents three methods for calculating
       operational risk capital requirements in a continuum of increasing sophistication
       and risk sensitivity:

       (1) the Basic Indicator Approach;

       (2) the Standardised Approach; and

       (3) Advanced Measurement Approaches (AMAs).

10.3   Banks are encouraged to move along the spectrum of available approaches as
       they develop more sophisticated operational risk measurement systems and
       practices. Qualifying criteria for the Standardised Approach and AMA are
       presented below.

10.4   Internationally active banks and banks with significant operational risk exposures
       (for example, specialised processing banks) are expected to use an approach that
       is more sophisticated than the Basic Indicator Approach and that is appropriate
       for the risk profile of the institution. A bank will be permitted to use the Basic
       Indicator or Standardised Approach for some parts of its operations and an AMA
       for others provided certain minimum criteria are met; see OPE10.6 to OPE10.9.

 Supervisors will review the capital requirement produced by the
                   operational risk approach used by a bank (whether Basic Indicator
                   Approach, Standardised Approach or AMA) for general credibility,
                   especially in relation to a firm’s peers. In the event that credibility is
                   lacking, appropriate supervisory action under Pillar 2 will be considered.


10.5
       A bank will not be allowed to choose to revert to a simpler approach once it has
       been approved for a more advanced approach without supervisory approval.
       However, if a supervisor determines that a bank using a more advanced approach
       no longer meets the qualifying criteria for this approach, it may require the bank
       to revert to a simpler approach for some or all of its operations, until it meets the
       conditions specified by the supervisor for returning to a more advanced approach.


Partial use
10.6   A bank will be permitted to use an AMA for some parts of its operations and the
       Basic Indicator Approach or Standardised Approach for the balance (partial use),
       provided that the following conditions are met:

       (1) All operational risks of the bank’s global, consolidated operations are
           captured;

       (2) All of the bank’s operations that are covered by the AMA meet the
           qualitative criteria for using an AMA, while those parts of its operations that
           are using one of the simpler approaches meet the qualifying criteria for that
           approach;

       (3) On the date of implementation of an AMA, a significant part of the bank’s
           operational risks are captured by the AMA; and

       (4) The bank provides its supervisor with a plan specifying the timetable to
           which it intends to roll out the AMA across all but an immaterial part of its
           operations. The plan should be driven by the practicality and feasibility of
           moving to the AMA over time, and not for other reasons.

10.7   Subject to the approval of its supervisor, a bank opting for partial use may
       determine which parts of its operations will use an AMA on the basis of business
       line, legal structure, geography, or other internally determined basis.

10.8   Subject to the approval of its supervisor, where a bank intends to implement an
       approach other than the AMA on a global, consolidated basis and it does not
       meet the third and/or fourth conditions in OPE10.6, the bank may, in limited
       circumstances:

       (1) Implement an AMA on a permanent partial basis; and

       (2) Include in its global, consolidated operational risk capital requirements the
           results of an AMA calculation at a subsidiary where the AMA has been
           approved by the relevant host supervisor and is acceptable to the bank’s
           home supervisor.


10.9   Approvals of the nature described in OPE10.8 should be granted only on an
       exceptional basis. Such exceptional approvals should generally be limited to
       circumstances where a bank is prevented from meeting these conditions due to
       implementation decisions of supervisors of the bank’s subsidiary operations in
       foreign jurisdictions.



           OPE20
                                 Basic indicator approach
                                 This chapter describes the Basic Indicator
                                 Approach for calculating operational risk capital
                                 requirements. This is the simplest of the three
                                 approaches.


                                 
20.1   Banks using the Basic Indicator Approach must hold capital for operational risk
       equal to the average over the previous three years of a fixed percentage
       (denoted alpha) of positive annual gross income. Figures for any year in which
       annual gross income is negative or zero should be excluded from both the
       numerator and denominator when calculating the average. 


If negative gross income distorts a bank’s Pillar 1 capital charge,
                   supervisors will consider appropriate supervisory action under Pillar 2.


20.2   The capital requirement under the Basic Indicator Approach, KBIA, may be
       expressed as follows, where GI is annual gross income, where positive, over the
       previous three years; n is the number of the previous three years for which gross
       income is positive; and α is 15% (set by the Committee, relating the industry-wide
       level of required capital to the industry-wide level of the indicator).




20.3   Gross income is defined as net interest income plus net non-interest income. It is
       intended that this measure should:

       (1) be gross of any provisions (eg for unpaid interest);

       (2) be gross of operating expenses, including fees paid to outsourcing service
           providers;

       (3) exclude realised profits / losses from the sale of securities in the banking
           book; and

       (4) exclude extraordinary or irregular items as well as income derived from
           insurance.




 As defined by national supervisors and/or national accounting
                   standards.

 In contrast to fees paid for services that are outsourced, fees received
                   by banks that provide outsourcing services shall be included in the
                   definition of gross income.

  Realised profits/losses from securities classified as “held to maturity”
                   and “available for sale”, which typically constitute items of the banking
                   book (eg under certain accounting standards), are also excluded from
                   the definition of gross income.


20.4   As a point of entry for capital calculation, no specific criteria for use of the Basic
       Indicator Approach are set out in this Framework. Nevertheless, banks using this
       approach are encouraged to comply with the Committee’s guidance on Principles
       for the Sound Management of Operational Risk, June 2011.

20.5   The risk-weighted assets for operational risk under the Basic Indicator Approach
       are determined by multiplying the capital requirements calculated as set out in
       this chapter by 12.5.


                                 OPE25
                                 Standardised approach
                                 This chapter sets out two standardised
                                 approaches (the Standardised Approach and the
                                 Alternative Standardised Approach) for
                                 calculating operational risk capital requirements,
                                 based on a division of a bank's activities into
                                 eight business lines.


                                 
The Standardised Approach
25.1   In the Standardised Approach, banks’ activities are divided into eight business
       lines: corporate finance, trading and sales, retail banking, commercial banking,
       payment and settlement, agency services, asset management, and retail
       brokerage. The business lines are defined in detail in OPE25.16 to OPE25.25.

25.2   Within each business line, gross income is a broad indicator that serves as a proxy
       for the scale of business operations and thus the likely scale of operational risk
       exposure within each of these business lines. The capital requirement for each
       business line is calculated by multiplying gross income by a factor (denoted beta)
       assigned to that business line. Beta serves as a proxy for the industry-wide
       relationship between the operational risk loss experience for a given business line
       and the aggregate level of gross income for that business line. It should be noted
       that in the Standardised Approach gross income is measured for each business
       line, not the whole institution, i.e. in corporate finance, the indicator is the gross
       income generated in the corporate finance business line.

25.3   The total capital requirement is calculated as the three-year average of the simple
       summation of the regulatory capital requirements across each of the business
       lines in each year. In any given year, negative capital requirements (resulting from
       negative gross income) in any business line may offset positive capital
       requirements in other business lines without limit. However, where the
       aggregate capital requirement across all business lines within a given year is
       negative, then the input to the numerator for that year will be zero.

 At national discretion, supervisors may adopt a more conservative
                   treatment of negative gross income.

As under the Basic Indicator Approach, if negative gross income
                   distorts a bank’s Pillar 1 capital requirement under the Standardised
                   Approach, supervisors will consider appropriate supervisory action
                   under Pillar 2.


25.4   The total capital requirement under the Standardised Approach, KTSA, may be
       expressed as follows, where GI1-8 = annual gross income in a given year, as
       defined in the Basic Indicator Approach, for each of the eight business lines and β a fixed percentage, set by the Committee, relating the level of required
       capital to the level of the gross income for each of the eight business lines.


        Values of betas                                                               Table 1


                            Business lines                        Beta factors

            β1      Corporate finance                                18%

            β2      Trading and sales                                18%

            β3      Retail banking                                   12%

            β4      Commercial banking                               15%

            β5      Payment and settlement                           18%

            β6      Agency services                                  15%

            β7      Asset management                                 12%

            β8      Retail brokerage                                 12%




Qualifying criteria for the Standardised Approach
25.5   In order to qualify for use of the Standardised Approach, a bank must satisfy its
       supervisor that, at a minimum:

       (1) Its board of directors and senior management, as appropriate, are actively
           involved in the oversight of the operational risk management framework;

       (2) It has an operational risk management system that is conceptually sound
           and is implemented with integrity; and

       (3) It has sufficient resources in the use of the approach in the major business
           lines as well as the control and audit areas.

25.6   Supervisors will have the right to insist on a period of initial monitoring of a bank’
       s Standardised Approach before it is used for regulatory capital purposes.



25.7   A bank must develop specific policies and have documented criteria for mapping
       gross income for current business lines and activities into the standardised
       framework. The criteria must be reviewed and adjusted for new or changing

       business activities as appropriate. The principles for business line mapping are set
       out in OPE25.16 to OPE25.25.

25.8   As some internationally active banks will wish to use the Standardised Approach,
       it is important that such banks have adequate operational risk management
       systems. Consequently, an internationally active bank using the Standardised
       Approach must meet the following additional criteria:

       (1) The bank must have an operational risk management system with clear
           responsibilities assigned to an operational risk management function. The
           operational risk management function is responsible for developing
           strategies to identify, assess, monitor and control/mitigate operational risk;
           for codifying firm-level policies and procedures concerning operational risk
           management and controls; for the design and implementation of the firm’s
           operational risk assessment methodology; and for the design and
           implementation of a risk-reporting system for operational risk.

       (2) As part of the bank’s internal operational risk assessment system, the bank
           must systematically track relevant operational risk data including material
           losses by business line. Its operational risk assessment system must be
           closely integrated into the risk management processes of the bank. Its
           output must be an integral part of the process of monitoring and controlling
           the banks operational risk profile. For instance, this information must play a
           prominent role in risk reporting, management reporting, and risk analysis.
           The bank must have techniques for creating incentives to improve the
           management of operational risk throughout the firm.

       (3) There must be regular reporting of operational risk exposures, including
           material operational losses, to business unit management, senior
           management, and to the board of directors. The bank must have procedures
           for taking appropriate action according to the information within the
           management reports.

       (4) The bank’s operational risk management system must be well documented.
           The bank must have a routine in place for ensuring compliance with a
           documented set of internal policies, controls and procedures concerning the
           operational risk management system, which must include policies for the
           treatment of non-compliance issues.

       (5) The bank’s operational risk management processes and assessment system
           must be subject to validation and regular independent review. These reviews
           must include both the activities of the business units and of the operational
           risk management function.

       (6) The bank’s operational risk assessment system (including the internal
           validation processes) must be subject to regular independent review by
           internal or external auditors and/or supervisors.


  For other banks, these criteria are recommended, with national
                   discretion to impose them as requirements.



The alternative standardised approach
25.9   At national supervisory discretion a supervisor can choose to allow a bank to use
       the Alternative Standardised Approach (ASA) provided the bank is able to satisfy
       its supervisor that this alternative approach provides an improved basis by, for
       example, avoiding double counting of risks. Once a bank has been allowed to use
       the ASA, it will not be allowed to revert to use of the Standardised Approach
       without the permission of its supervisor. It is not envisaged that large diversified
       banks in major markets would use the ASA.

25.10 Supervisors allowing banks to use the ASA must decide on the appropriate
      qualifying criteria for that approach, as the criteria set forth in OPE25.7 and
      OPE25.8 may not be appropriate.

25.11 Under the ASA, the operational risk capital requirement/methodology is the same
      as for the Standardised Approach except for two business lines — retail banking
      and commercial banking. For these business lines, loans and advances —
      multiplied by a fixed factor “m” — replaces gross income as the exposure
      indicator. The betas for retail and commercial banking are unchanged from the
      Standardised Approach.




25.12 The ASA operational risk capital requirement, KRB, for retail banking (with the
       same basic formula for commercial banking) can be expressed as follows, where β
       RB
          is the beta for the retail banking business line, LARB is total outstanding retail
       loans and advances (non-risk weighted and gross of provisions), averaged over
       the past three years, and m is 0.035:




25.13 For the purposes of the ASA, total loans and advances in the retail banking
      business line consists of the total drawn amounts in the following credit
      portfolios: retail, small or medium-sized entities (SMEs) treated as retail, and
      purchased retail receivables. For commercial banking, total loans and advances
      consists of the drawn amounts in the following credit portfolios: corporate,
      sovereign, bank, specialised lending, SMEs treated as corporate and purchased
      corporate receivables. The book value of securities held in the banking book
      should also be included.

25.14 Under the ASA, banks may aggregate retail and commercial banking (if they wish
      to) using a beta of 15%. Similarly, those banks that are unable to disaggregate
      their gross income into the other six business lines can aggregate the total gross
      income for these six business lines using a beta of 18%, with negative gross
      income treated as described in OPE25.3 and OPE25.4.

25.15 As under the Standardised Approach, the total capital requirement for the ASA is
      calculated as the simple summation of the regulatory capital requirements across
      each of the eight business lines.


Business lines
25.16 All activities must be mapped into the eight level 1 business lines in Table 2 in a
      mutually exclusive and jointly exhaustive manner.



     Mapping of business lines                                                            Table 2


         Level 1               Level 2                        Activity groups

     Corporate finance  Corporate finance Municipal / government finance
Merchant banking
Advisory services
        Mergers and acquisitions, underwriting, privatisations, securitisation, research, debt (government, high yield), equity, syndications, initial public offerings, secondary private placements

Trading and sales     Sales                
Market-making       
                       Proprietary
                       positions

                       Treasury
Fixed income, equity, foreign exchanges, commodities, credit, funding, own position securities, lending and repos, brokerage, debt, prime brokerage

     Retail banking   
 Retail banking       Retail lending and deposits, banking services, trust and estates

                       Private banking      
Private lending and deposits, banking services, trust and estates, investment advice
 Card services        
Merchant / commercial / corporate cards, privatelabels and retail

     Commercial banking       
Commercial banking 
Project finance, real estate, export finance, trade finance, factoring, leasing, lending, guarantees, bills of exchange
Payment and settlement
External clients
Payments and collections, funds and settlement
Agency services   
Custody              
Escrow, depository receipts, securities lending (customers), corporate actions
Corporate agency     
Issuer and paying agents
Corporate trust
Asset management            
Discretionary fund management   
Pooled, segregated, retail, institutional, closed, open, private equity

Non-discretionary fund management 
Pooled, segregated, retail, institutional, closed, open
Retail brokerage   Retail brokerage    Execution and full service

Payment and settlement losses related to a bank’s own activities would
                      be incorporated in the loss experience of the affected business line.


25.17 Any banking or non-banking activity which cannot be readily mapped into the
      business line framework, but which represents an ancillary function to an activity
      included in the framework, must be allocated to the business line it supports. If
      more than one business line is supported through the ancillary activity, an
      objective mapping criteria must be used.

25.18 When mapping gross income, if an activity cannot be mapped into a particular
      business line then the business line yielding the highest requirement must be
      used. The same business line equally applies to any associated ancillary activity.

25.19 Banks may use internal pricing methods to allocate gross income between
      business lines provided that total gross income for the bank (as would be
      recorded under the Basic Indicator Approach) still equals the sum of gross
      income for the eight business lines.

25.20 The mapping of activities into business lines for operational risk capital purposes
      must be consistent with the definitions of business lines used for regulatory
      capital calculations in other risk categories, ie credit and market risk. Any
      deviations from this principle must be clearly motivated and documented.

25.21 The mapping process used must be clearly documented. In particular, written
      business line definitions must be clear and detailed enough to allow third parties
      to replicate the business line mapping. Documentation must, among other
      things, clearly motivate any exceptions or overrides and be kept on record.

25.22 Processes must be in place to define the mapping of any new activities or
      products.

25.23 Senior management is responsible for the mapping policy (which is subject to the
      approval by the board of directors).

25.24 The mapping process to business lines must be subject to independent review.



25.25 There are a variety of valid approaches that banks can use to map their activities
      to the eight business lines, provided the approach used meets the business line
      mapping principles. Nevertheless, the Committee is aware that some banks
      would welcome further guidance. The following is therefore an example of one
      possible approach that could be used by a bank to map its gross income:

       (1) Gross income for retail banking consists of net interest income on loans and
           advances to retail customers and SMEs treated as retail, plus fees related to
           traditional retail activities, net income from swaps and derivatives held to
           hedge the retail banking book, and income on purchased retail receivables.
           To calculate net interest income for retail banking, a bank takes the interest
           earned on its loans and advances to retail customers less the weighted
           average cost of funding of the loans (from whatever source retail or other
           deposits).

       (2) Similarly, gross income for commercial banking consists of the net interest
           income on loans and advances to corporate (plus SMEs treated as
           corporate), interbank and sovereign customers and income on purchased
           corporate receivables, plus fees related to traditional commercial banking
           activities including commitments, guarantees, bills of exchange, net income
           (eg from coupons and dividends) on securities held in the banking book, and
           profits/losses on swaps and derivatives held to hedge the commercial
           banking book. Again, the calculation of net interest income is based on
           interest earned on loans and advances to corporate, interbank and sovereign
           customers less the weighted average cost of funding for these loans (from
           whatever source).

       (3) For trading and sales, gross income consists of profits/losses on instruments
           held for trading purposes (ie in the mark-to-market book), net of funding
           cost, plus fees from wholesale broking.

       (4) For the other five business lines, gross income consists primarily of the net
           fees/commissions earned in each of these businesses. Payment and
           settlement consists of fees to cover provision of payment/settlement
           facilities for wholesale counterparties. Asset management is management of
           assets on behalf of others.


Calculation of risk-weighted assets
25.26 The risk-weighted assets for operational risk under the standardised approaches
      are determined by multiplying the capital requirements calculated as set out in
      this chapter by 12.5.

                                 OPE30
                                 Advanced Measurement
                                 Approaches
                                 This chapter describes the criteria that banks
                                 must meet to be able to calculate operational
                                 risk capital requirements based on internal risk
                                 measurement systems.


                                 
Introduction
30.1   Under the Advanced Measurement Approaches (AMA), the regulatory capital
       requirement will equal the risk measure generated by the bank’s internal
       operational risk measurement system using the quantitative and qualitative
       criteria for the AMA discussed below. Use of the AMA is subject to supervisory
       approval.

30.2   A bank adopting the AMA may, with the approval of its host supervisors and the
       support of its home supervisor, use an allocation mechanism for the purpose of
       determining the regulatory capital requirement for internationally active banking
       subsidiaries that are not deemed to be significant relative to the overall banking
       group but are themselves subject to this Framework in accordance with SCO10.
       Supervisory approval would be conditional on the bank demonstrating to the
       satisfaction of the relevant supervisors that the allocation mechanism for these
       subsidiaries is appropriate and can be supported empirically. The board of
       directors and senior management of each subsidiary are responsible for
       conducting their own assessment of the subsidiary’s operational risks and
       controls and ensuring the subsidiary is adequately capitalised in respect of those
       risks.

30.3   Subject to supervisory approval as discussed in OPE30.11(4), the incorporation of
       a well-reasoned estimate of diversification benefits may be factored in at the
       group-wide level or at the banking subsidiary level. However, any banking
       subsidiaries whose host supervisors determine that they must calculate stand-
       alone capital requirements (see SCO10) may not incorporate group-wide
       diversification benefits in their AMA calculations (eg where an internationally
       active banking subsidiary is deemed to be significant, the banking subsidiary may
       incorporate the diversification benefits of its own operations — those arising at
       the sub-consolidated level — but may not incorporate the diversification benefits
       of the parent).

30.4   The appropriateness of the allocation methodology will be reviewed with
       consideration given to the stage of development of risk-sensitive allocation
       techniques and the extent to which it reflects the level of operational risk in the
       legal entities and across the banking group. Supervisors expect that AMA
       banking groups will continue efforts to develop increasingly risk-sensitive
       operational risk allocation techniques, notwithstanding initial approval of
       techniques based on gross income or other proxies for operational risk.

30.5   Banks adopting the AMA will be required to calculate their capital requirement
       using this approach as well as the 1988 Accord as outlined in RBC20.14.


General standards for using the AMA
30.6   In order to qualify for use of the AMA a bank must satisfy its supervisor that, at a
       minimum:

       (1) Its board of directors and senior management, as appropriate, are actively
           involved in the oversight of the operational risk management framework;

       (2) It has an operational risk management system that is conceptually sound
           and is implemented with integrity; and

       (3) It has sufficient resources in the use of the approach in the major business
           lines as well as the control and audit areas.

30.7   A bank’s AMA will be subject to a period of initial monitoring by its supervisor
       before it can be used for regulatory purposes. This period will allow the
       supervisor to determine whether the approach is credible and appropriate. As
       discussed below, a bank’s internal measurement system must reasonably
       estimate unexpected losses based on the combined use of internal and relevant
       external loss data, scenario analysis and bank-specific business environment and
       internal control factors. The bank’s measurement system must also be capable of
       supporting an allocation of economic capital for operational risk across business
       lines in a manner that creates incentives to improve business line operational risk
       management.


Qualitative standards for using the AMA
30.8   A bank must meet the following qualitative standards before it is permitted to
       use an AMA for operational risk capital:

       (1) The bank must have an independent operational risk management function
           that is responsible for the design and implementation of the bank’s
           operational risk management framework. The operational risk management
           function is responsible for codifying firm-level policies and procedures
           concerning operational risk management and controls; for the design and
           implementation of the firm’s operational risk measurement methodology; for
           the design and implementation of a risk-reporting system for operational
           risk; and for developing strategies to identify, measure, monitor and control
           /mitigate operational risk.


     (2) The bank’s internal operational risk measurement system must be closely
         integrated into the day-to-day risk management processes of the bank. Its
         output must be an integral part of the process of monitoring and controlling

         the bank’s operational risk profile. For instance, this information must play a
         prominent role in risk reporting, management reporting, internal capital
         allocation, and risk analysis. The bank must have techniques for allocating
         operational risk capital to major business lines and for creating incentives to
         improve the management of operational risk throughout the firm.

     (3) There must be regular reporting of operational risk exposures and loss
         experience to business unit management, senior management, and to the
         board of directors. The bank must have procedures for taking appropriate
         action according to the information within the management reports.

     (4) The bank’s operational risk management system must be well documented.
         The bank must have a routine in place for ensuring compliance with a
         documented set of internal policies, controls and procedures concerning the
         operational risk management system, which must include policies for the
         treatment of non-compliance issues.

     (5) Internal and/or external auditors must perform regular reviews of the
         operational risk management processes and measurement systems. This
         review must include both the activities of the business units and of the
         independent operational risk management function.

     (6) The validation of the operational risk measurement system by external
         auditors and/or supervisory authorities must include the following:

         (a) Verifying that the internal validation processes are operating in a
             satisfactory manner; and

         (b) Making sure that data flows and processes associated with the risk
             measurement system are transparent and accessible. In particular, it is
             necessary that auditors and supervisory authorities are in a position to
             have easy access, whenever they judge it necessary and under
             appropriate procedures, to the system’s specifications and parameters.


Quantitative standards for using the AMA
30.9   Given the continuing evolution of analytical approaches for operational risk, the
       Committee is not specifying the approach or distributional assumptions used to
       generate the operational risk measure for regulatory capital purposes. However, a
       bank must be able to demonstrate that its approach captures potentially severe
       “tail” loss events. Whatever approach is used, a bank must demonstrate that its
       operational risk measure meets a soundness standard comparable to that of the
       internal ratings-based approach for credit risk (ie comparable to a one year
       holding period and a 99.9th percentile confidence interval).

30.10 In the development of operational risk measurement and management systems,
      banks must have and maintain rigorous procedures for operational risk model
      development and independent model validation.

30.11 The following quantitative standards apply to internally generated operational
      risk measures for purposes of calculating the regulatory minimum capital
      requirements.

       (1) Any internal operational risk measurement system must be consistent with
           the scope of operational risk defined in OPE10.1 and the loss event types
           defined in Table 1.

       (2) Supervisors will require the bank to calculate its regulatory capital
           requirement as the sum of expected loss (EL) and unexpected loss (UL),
           unless the bank can demonstrate that it is adequately capturing EL in its
           internal business practices. That is, to base the minimum regulatory capital
           requirement on UL alone, the bank must be able to demonstrate to the
           satisfaction of its national supervisor that it has measured and accounted for
           its EL exposure.

       (3) A bank’s risk measurement system must be sufficiently ‘granular’ to capture
           the major drivers of operational risk affecting the shape of the tail of the loss
           estimates.

     (4) Risk measures for different operational risk estimates must be added for
         purposes of calculating the regulatory minimum capital requirement.
         However, the bank may be permitted to use internally determined
         correlations in operational risk losses across individual operational risk
         estimates, provided it can demonstrate to the satisfaction of the national
         supervisor that its systems for determining correlations are sound,
         implemented with integrity, and take into account the uncertainty
         surrounding any such correlation estimates (particularly in periods of stress).
         The bank must validate its correlation assumptions using appropriate
         quantitative and qualitative techniques.

     (5) Any operational risk measurement system must have certain key features to
         meet the supervisory soundness standard set out in this section. These
         elements must include the use of internal data, relevant external data,
         scenario analysis and factors reflecting the business environment and
         internal control systems.





     (6) A bank needs to have a credible, transparent, well-documented and
         verifiable approach for weighting these fundamental elements in its overall
         operational risk measurement system. For example, there may be cases
         where estimates of the 99.9th percentile confidence interval based primarily
         on internal and external loss event data would be unreliable for business
         lines with a heavy-tailed loss distribution and a small number of observed
         losses. In such cases, scenario analysis, and business environment and
         control factors, may play a more dominant role in the risk measurement
         system. Conversely, operational loss event data may play a more dominant
         role in the risk measurement system for business lines where estimates of
         the 99.9th percentile confidence interval based primarily on such data are
         deemed reliable. In all cases, the bank’s approach for weighting the four
         fundamental elements should be internally consistent and avoid the double
         counting of qualitative assessments or risk mitigants already recognised in
         other elements of the framework.

          Detailed loss event type classification                                              Table 1


            Event-type       category (Level  1) 

                                                      Categories (Level 2)
        Definition                            Activity examples (Level 3)
                                                       
                

          Internal fraud
Losses due to acts of a type intended to defraud, misappropriate property or circumvent regulations, the law or company policy, excluding diversity/ discrimination events, which involves at least one internal party

Unauthorised activity

Transactions not reported (intentional)
Transaction type unauthorised (with monetary loss)
Mismarking of position (intentional)

Theft and fraud

Fraud / credit fraud / worthless deposits
Theft / extortion / embezzlement / robbery
Misappropriation of assets
Malicious destruction of assets
Forgery Check kiting Smuggling
Account takeover / impersonation etc
Tax non-compliance / evasion (wilful)
Bribes / kickbacks
Insider trading (not on firm’s account)


 External fraud 

 Losses due to acts of a type intended to defraud, misappropriate property or circumvent the law, by a third party

Theft and fraud
 Systems security
Theft / robbery Forgery
Check kiting

Hacking damage
Theft of information (with monetary loss)

Employment practices and workplace safety
Losses arising from acts inconsistent with employment, health or safety laws or agreements, from payment of personal injury claims, or from diversity / discrimination events
Employee relations
Compensation, benefit, termination issues
Organised labour activity

Safe environment
General liability (slip and fall etc)
Employee health and safety rules events
Workers compensation

Clients, products and business practices
Losses arising from an unintentional or negligent failure to meet a professional obligation to specific clients (including fiduciary and suitability requirements), or from the nature or design of a product.
Suitability, disclosure and fiduciary
Fiduciary breaches / guideline violations
Suitability / disclosure issues (know-your-customer etc)
Retail customer disclosure violations
Breach of privacy Aggressive sales Account churning
Misuse of confidential information
Lender liability
Improper business or market practices
Antitrust
Improper trade / market practices
Market manipulation
Insider trading (on firm’s account)
Unlicensed activity Money laundering

Product flaws
Product defects (unauthorised etc)
Model errors

Selection, sponsorship and exposure
Failure to investigate client per guidelines
Exceeding client exposure limits

Advisory activities
Disputes over performance of advisory activities

Damage to physical assets
Losses arising from loss or damage to physical assets from natural disaster or other events
Disasters and other events
Natural disaster losses
Human losses from external sources (terrorism, vandalism)


Business disruption and system failures
Losses arising from disruption of business or system failures
Systems 
Hardware
Software
Telecommunications
Utility outage / disruptions
Execution, delivery and process management
Losses from failed transaction processing or process  management, from relations with trade counterparties and vendors
Transaction capture, execution and maintenance
Miscommunication
Data entry, maintenance or loading error
Missed deadline or responsibility
Model / system misoperation
Accounting error / entity attribution error
Other task misperformance Delivery failure
Collateral management failure
Reference data maintenance
Monitoring and reporting
Failed mandatory reporting obligation
Inaccurate external report (loss incurred)
Customer intake and documentation
Client permissions / disclaimers missing
Legal documents missing / incomplete
Customer / client account management
Unapproved access given to accounts
Incorrect client records (loss incurred)
Negligent loss or damage of client assets
Trade counterparties
Non-client counterparty misperformance
Miscellaneous non-client counterparty disputes

Vendors and suppliers
Outsourcing Vendor disputes


 


30.12 Banks must track internal loss data according to the criteria set out in OPE30.12
      to OPE30.15. The tracking of internal loss event data is an essential prerequisite

       to the development and functioning of a credible operational risk measurement
       system. Internal loss data is crucial for tying a bank’s risk estimates to its actual
       loss experience. This can be achieved in a number of ways, including using
       internal loss data as the foundation of empirical risk estimates, as a means of
       validating the inputs and outputs of the bank’s risk measurement system, or as
       the link between loss experience and risk management and control decisions.

30.13 Internal loss data is most relevant when it is clearly linked to a bank’s current
      business activities, technological processes and risk management procedures.
      Therefore, a bank must have documented procedures for assessing the on-going
      relevance of historical loss data, including those situations in which judgement
      overrides, scaling, or other adjustments may be used, to what extent they may be
      used and who is authorised to make such decisions.

30.14 Internally generated operational risk measures used for regulatory capital
      purposes must be based on a minimum five-year observation period of internal
      loss data, whether the internal loss data is used directly to build the loss measure
      or to validate it. When the bank first moves to the AMA, a three-year historical
      data window is acceptable (this includes the parallel calculations in RBC20.14).

30.15 To qualify for regulatory capital purposes, a bank’s internal loss collection
      processes must meet the following standards:

       (1) To assist in supervisory validation, a bank must be able to map its historical
           internal loss data into the relevant level 1 supervisory categories defined in
           OPE25.16 to OPE25.25 and OPE30.11 and to provide these data to
           supervisors upon request. It must have documented, objective criteria for
           allocating losses to the specified business lines and event types. However, it
           is left to the bank to decide the extent to which it applies these
           categorisations in its internal operational risk measurement system.

       (2) A bank’s internal loss data must be comprehensive in that it captures all
           material activities and exposures from all appropriate sub-systems and
           geographic locations. A bank must be able to justify that any excluded
           activities or exposures, both individually and in combination, would not have
           a material impact on the overall risk estimates. A bank must have an
           appropriate de minimis gross loss threshold for internal loss data collection,
           for example €10,000. The appropriate threshold may vary somewhat
           between banks, and within a bank across business lines and/or event types.
           However, particular thresholds should be broadly consistent with those used
           by peer banks.


     (3) Aside from information on gross loss amounts, a bank should collect
         information about the date of the event, any recoveries of gross loss
         amounts, as well as some descriptive information about the drivers or causes
         of the loss event. The level of detail of any descriptive information should be
         commensurate with the size of the gross loss amount.

     (4) A bank must develop specific criteria for assigning loss data arising from an
         event in a centralised function (eg an information technology department) or
         an activity that spans more than one business line, as well as from related
         events over time.

     (5) Operational risk losses that are related to credit risk and have historically
         been included in banks’ credit risk databases (eg collateral management
         failures) will continue to be treated as credit risk for the purposes of
         calculating minimum regulatory capital under this Framework. Therefore,
         such losses will not be subject to the operational risk capital requirements.
         Nevertheless, for the purposes of internal operational risk management,
         banks must identify all material operational risk losses consistent with the
         scope of the definition of operational risk (as set out in OPE10.1 and the loss
         event types outlined in OPE30.11), including those related to credit risk. Such
         material operational risk-related credit risk losses should be flagged
         separately within a bank’s internal operational risk database. The materiality
         of these losses may vary between banks, and within a bank across business
         lines and/or event types. Materiality thresholds should be broadly consistent
         with those used by peer banks.

     (6) Operational risk losses that are related to market risk are treated as
         operational risk for the purposes of calculating minimum regulatory capital
         under this Framework and will therefore be subject to the operational risk
         capital requirements.

 This applies to all banks, including those that may only now be
                 designing their credit risk and operational risk databases.




30.16 A bank’s operational risk measurement system must use relevant external data
      (either public data and/or pooled industry data), especially when there is reason
      to believe that the bank is exposed to infrequent, yet potentially severe, losses.
      These external data should include data on actual loss amounts, information on
      the scale of business operations where the event occurred, information on the
      causes and circumstances of the loss events, or other information that would help
      in assessing the relevance of the loss event for other banks. A bank must have a
       systematic process for determining the situations for which external data must be
       used and the methodologies used to incorporate the data (eg scaling, qualitative
       adjustments, or informing the development of improved scenario analysis). The
       conditions and practices for external data use must be regularly reviewed,
       documented, and subject to periodic independent review.

30.17 A bank must use scenario analysis of expert opinion in conjunction with external
      data to evaluate its exposure to high-severity events. This approach draws on the
      knowledge of experienced business managers and risk management experts to
      derive reasoned assessments of plausible severe losses. For instance, these expert
      assessments could be expressed as parameters of an assumed statistical loss
      distribution. In addition, scenario analysis should be used to assess the impact of
      deviations from the correlation assumptions embedded in the bank’s operational
      risk measurement framework, in particular, to evaluate potential losses arising
      from multiple simultaneous operational risk loss events. Over time, such
      assessments need to be validated and re-assessed through comparison to actual
      loss experience to ensure their reasonableness.

30.18 In addition to using loss data, whether actual or scenario-based, a bank’s firm-
      wide risk assessment methodology must capture key business environment and
      internal control factors that can change its operational risk profile. These factors
      will make a bank’s risk assessments more forward-looking, more directly reflect
      the quality of the bank’s control and operating environments, help align capital
      assessments with risk management objectives, and recognise both improvements
      and deterioration in operational risk profiles in a more immediate fashion. To
      qualify for regulatory capital purposes, the use of these factors in a bank’s risk
      measurement framework must meet the following standards:

       (1) The choice of each factor needs to be justified as a meaningful driver of risk,
           based on experience and involving the expert judgment of the affected
           business areas. Whenever possible, the factors should be translatable into
           quantitative measures that lend themselves to verification.



       (2) The sensitivity of a bank’s risk estimates to changes in the factors and the
           relative weighting of the various factors need to be well reasoned. In
           addition to capturing changes in risk due to improvements in risk controls,
           the framework must also capture potential increases in risk due to greater
           complexity of activities or increased business volume.

       (3) The framework and each instance of its application, including the supporting
           rationale for any adjustments to empirical estimates, must be documented
           and subject to independent review within the bank and by supervisors.

       (4) Over time, the process and the outcomes need to be validated through
           comparison to actual internal loss experience, relevant external data, and
           appropriate adjustments made.


Risk mitigation
30.19 Under the AMA, a bank will be allowed to recognise the risk mitigating impact of
      insurance in the measures of operational risk used for regulatory minimum
      capital requirements. The recognition of insurance mitigation will be limited to
      20% of the total operational risk capital requirements calculated under the AMA.

30.20 A bank’s ability to take advantage of such risk mitigation will depend on
      compliance with the following criteria:

       (1) The insurance provider has a minimum claims paying ability rating of A (or
           equivalent).

       (2) The insurance policy must have an initial term of no less than one year. For
           policies with a residual term of less than one year, the bank must make
           appropriate haircuts reflecting the declining residual term of the policy, up to
           a full 100% haircut for policies with a residual term of 90 days or less.

       (3) The insurance policy has a minimum notice period for cancellation of 90 days.

       (4) The insurance policy has no exclusions or limitations triggered by
           supervisory actions or, in the case of a failed bank, that preclude the bank,
           receiver or liquidator from recovering for damages suffered or expenses
           incurred by the bank, except in respect of events occurring after the initiation
           of receivership or liquidation proceedings in respect of the bank, provided
           that the insurance policy may exclude any fine, penalty, or punitive damages
           resulting from supervisory actions.



       (5) The risk mitigation calculations must reflect the bank’s insurance coverage in
           a manner that is transparent in its relationship to, and consistent with, the
           actual likelihood and impact of loss used in the bank’s overall determination
           of its operational risk capital.

       (6) The insurance is provided by a third-party entity. In the case of insurance
           through captives and affiliates, the exposure has to be laid off to an
           independent third-party entity, for example through re-insurance, that meets
           the eligibility criteria.

       (7) The framework for recognising insurance is well reasoned and documented.

       (8) The bank discloses a description of its use of insurance for the purpose of
           mitigating operational risk.

30.21 A bank’s methodology for recognising insurance under the AMA also needs to
      capture the following elements through appropriate discounts or haircuts in the
      amount of insurance recognition:

       (1) The residual term of a policy, where less than one year, as noted above;

       (2) A policy’s cancellation terms, where less than one year; and

       (3) The uncertainty of payment as well as mismatches in coverage of insurance
           policies.


Calculation of risk-weighted assets
30.22 The risk-weighted assets for operational risk under the AMA are determined by
      multiplying the capital requirements calculated as set out in this chapter by 12.5.
                                 LEV
                                 Leverage ratio
                                 This standard describes the simple, transparent,
                                 non-risk-based leverage ratio. This measure
                                 intends to restrict the build-up of leverage in the
                                 banking sector and reinforce the risk-based
                                 requirements with a simple, non-risk-based
                                 "backstop" measure.



                                 LEV10
                                 Definitions and application
                                 This chapter describes the scope of
                                 consolidation to be used in calculating the
                                 leverage ratio.


                                 
10.1   The Basel III leverage ratio framework follows the same scope of regulatory
       consolidation as is used for the risk-based capital framework. This is set out in the
       SCO standard.

10.2   Where a banking, financial, insurance or commercial entity is outside the scope of
       regulatory consolidation, only the investment in the capital of such entities (ie
       only the carrying value of the investment, as opposed to the underlying assets
       and other exposures of the investee) is to be included in the leverage ratio
       exposure measure. However, investments in the capital of such entities that are
       deducted from Tier 1 capital as set out in LEV30.6 may be excluded from the
       leverage ratio exposure measure.



                                 LEV20
                                 Calculation
                                 This chapter describes how to calculate the
                                 leverage ratio.


                                20.1   The Basel III leverage ratio is intended to:

       (1) restrict the build-up of leverage in the banking sector to avoid destabilising
           deleveraging processes that can damage the broader financial system and
           the economy; and

       (2) reinforce the risk-based capital requirements with a simple, non-risk-based
           “backstop” measure.

20.2   The Basel Committee is of the view that:

       (1) a simple leverage ratio framework is critical and complementary to the risk-
           based capital framework; and

       (2) a credible leverage ratio is one that ensures broad and adequate capture of
           both the on- and off-balance sheet sources of banks’ leverage.

20.3   The Basel III leverage ratio is defined as the capital measure (the numerator)
       divided by the exposure measure (the denominator), with this ratio expressed as
       a percentage:




20.4   The capital measure for the leverage ratio is the Tier 1 capital of the risk-based
       capital framework as defined in CAP10 taking account of the transitional
       arrangements. In other words, the capital measure used for the leverage ratio at
       any particular point in time is the Tier 1 capital measure applying at that time
       under the risk-based framework.

20.5   A bank’s total exposure measure is the sum of the following exposures, as
       defined in LEV30:

       (1) on-balance sheet exposures;

       (2) derivative exposures;

       (3) securities financing transaction exposures; and

       (4) off-balance sheet items.

20.6   Banks must meet a 3% leverage ratio minimum requirement at all times.



                                 LEV30
                                 Exposure measurement
                                 This chapter defines the exposure measure used
                                 for calculating the leverage ratio. This generally
                                 follows the accounting values, complemented by
                                 specific treatments for exposures related to
                                 derivative transactions, securities financing
                                 transactions and off-balance sheet items.


                                 Introduction to the exposure measure
30.1   The exposure measure for the leverage ratio should generally follow the
       accounting value, subject to the following:

       (1) on-balance sheet, non-derivative exposures are included in the exposure
           measure net of specific provisions or accounting valuation adjustments (eg
           accounting credit valuation adjustments); and

       (2) netting of loans and deposits is not allowed.




     FAQ
     FAQ1      Are notional and physical cash pooling positions (ie whereby corporate
               groups combine the credit and debit positions of their various accounts
               into one account) required to be treated on a gross basis?

               The Basel III leverage ratio exposure measure treatment of assets that
               are subject to cash pooling positions (ie whereby corporate groups
               combine the credit and debit positions of various accounts into one
               account) must be determined in accordance with the first sentence of
               LEV30.1. On this basis, the starting point is the exposure value as
               identified in the applicable accounting framework subject to the
               additional criteria of LEV30.1(2) and LEV30.2. Hence, the Basel III
               leverage ratio exposure measure must not be reduced through
               recognition of collateralisation, guarantees or risk mitigation
               purchased. Also, possible effects arising from netting of loans and
               deposits must be reversed, leading to an un-netted (gross) recognition
               of these exposures in the Basel III leverage ratio exposure measure.

               “Netting” should, however, be distinguished from physical “settlement”,
               with the latter referencing the transfer of credit and debit balances into
               a single account, with the result that these balances are extinguished
               and transformed into a single balance (ie a single claim on or a single
               liability to a single legal entity on the basis of a single account). In
               contrast to “netting”, the criteria of LEV30.1(2) and LEV30.2 do not
               require the reversal of the effects of physical “settlement”. The resulting
               single balance as the consequence of physical settlement constitutes
               the new starting point for establishing the Basel III leverage ratio
               exposure measure. Note, however, that the condition of “extinguished
               and transformed into a single balance” is not met when the bank could
               potentially be held liable for the non-performance of one or multiple
               participants in the cash pool.

               To the extent that physical settlement does not extinguish all of the
               credit and/or debit balances of the participants in the cash pool, in
               addition to the balance amount in the master account after settlement,
               banks must include in their Basel III leverage ratio exposure measure
               any remaining credit balances (ie the “unswept” amounts owed to the
               institution) in the cash pool on a gross basis.

               In addition, any off-balance sheet exposures arising from cash pooling
               products (both notional and physical) must be included in the Basel III
               leverage ratio exposure measure in accordance with LEV30.44 to LEV30.
               53.

     FAQ2


                   How should long settlement transactions (LSTs) and failed trades be
                   treated in the Basel III leverage ratio?

                   “Long settlement transactions” (LSTs) and “failed trades” are terms that
                   are in use in CRE51 and CRE70. For the purposes of the Basel III
                   leverage ratio framework, such transactions have to be treated
                   according to their accounting classification. For example, if an LST is
                   classified as a derivative according to the applicable accounting
                   standards, the Basel III leverage ratio exposure measure has to be
                   calculated according to LEV30.8 to LEV30.32. Similarly, if a failed trade
                   is classified as a receivable according to the applicable accounting
                   standards, the exposure measure has to be calculated according to
                   LEV30.5 to LEV30.7 related to “on-balance sheet exposures”. Securities
                   financing transactions that have failed to settle are excluded from the
                   described treatment and their exposure measure must be calculated
                   according to LEV30.36 to LEV30.43 on securities financing transaction
                   exposures.


30.2   Unless specified differently below, banks must not take account of physical or
       financial collateral, guarantees or other credit risk mitigation techniques to
       reduce the exposure measure.

30.3   With regard to traditional securitisations, an originating bank may exclude
       securitised exposures from its leverage ratio exposure measure if the
       securitisation meets the operational requirements for the recognition of risk
       transference according to CRE40.24. Banks meeting these conditions must
       include any retained securitisation exposures in their leverage ratio exposure
       measure. In all other cases, eg traditional securitisations that do not meet the
       operational requirements for the recognition of risk transference or synthetic
       securitisations, the securitised exposures must be included in the leverage ratio
       exposure measure.

30.4   At national discretion, and to facilitate the implementation of monetary policies, a
       jurisdiction may temporarily exempt central bank reserves from the leverage ratio
       exposure measure in exceptional macroeconomic circumstances. To maintain the
       same level of resilience provided by the leverage ratio, a jurisdiction applying this
       discretion must also increase the calibration of the minimum leverage ratio
       requirement commensurately to offset the impact of exempting central bank
       reserves. In addition, in order to maintain the comparability and transparency of
       the Basel III leverage ratio framework, banks will be required to disclose the
       impact of any temporary exemption alongside ongoing public disclosure of the
       leverage ratio without application of such exemption.



On-balance sheet exposures
30.5   Banks must include all balance sheet assets in their exposure measure, including
       on-balance sheet derivatives collateral and collateral for securities financing
       transactions (SFTs), with the exception of on-balance sheet derivative and SFT
       assets that are covered in LEV30.8 to LEV30.45.


 Where a bank according to its operative accounting framework
                   recognises fiduciary assets on the balance sheet, these assets can be
                   excluded from the leverage ratio exposure measure provided that the
                   assets meet the IAS 39 criteria for derecognition and, where applicable,
                   IFRS 10 for deconsolidation. When disclosing the leverage ratio, banks
                   must also disclose the extent of such de-recognised fiduciary items as
                   set out in Template LR1 in DIS80.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Where the underlying asset being leased is a tangible asset, should the
                   right-of-use (ROU) asset be included in risk-based capital and leverage
                   ratio denominators?

                   Yes, the ROU asset should be included in the risk-based capital and
                   leverage denominators. The intent of the revisions to the lease
                   accounting standards was to more appropriately reflect the economics
                   of leasing transactions, including both the lessee's obligation to make
                   future lease payments, as well as a ROU asset reflecting the lessee's
                   control over the leased item's economic benefits during the lease term.


30.6   However, to ensure consistency, balance sheet assets deducted from Tier 1
       capital (as set out in CAP30) may be deducted from the exposure measure. Two
       examples follow.

       (1) Where a banking, financial or insurance entity is not included in the
           regulatory scope of consolidation as set out in LEV10, the amount of any
           investment in the capital of that entity that is totally or partially deducted
           from Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital or from Additional Tier 1 capital of
           the bank following the corresponding deduction approach in CAP30.29 to
           CAP30.34 may also be deducted from the exposure measure.




       (2) For banks using the internal ratings-based approach to determining capital
           requirements for credit risk, CAP30.13 requires any shortfall in the stock of
           eligible provisions relative to expected losses to be deducted from CET1
           capital. The same amount may be deducted from the exposure measure.

30.7   Liability items must not be deducted from the measure of exposure. For example,
       gains/losses on fair valued liabilities or accounting value adjustments on
       derivative liabilities due to changes in the bank’s own credit risk as described in
       CAP30.15 must not be deducted from the exposure measure.


Derivative exposures
30.8   Derivatives create two types of exposure:

       (1) an exposure arising from the underlying of the derivative contract; and

       (2) a counterparty credit risk (CCR) exposure. The leverage ratio framework uses
           the method set out below to capture both of these exposure types.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Since banks will not encounter CCR with written options under the risk-
                   based capital framework, please clarify whether these kinds of
                   transactions should be included in the Basel III leverage ratio exposure
                   measure.

                   As written options create an exposure, they must be included in the
                   Basel III leverage ratio exposure measure.


30.9   Banks must calculate their derivative exposures, including where a bank sells
       protection using a credit derivative, as the replacement cost (RC) for the current
       exposure plus an add-on for potential future exposure (PFE), as described in
       LEV30.10 to LEV30.11. If the derivative exposure is covered by an eligible bilateral
       netting contract as specified in LEV30.20 to LEV30.21, an alternative treatment
       may be applied, as set out in LEV30.23 to LEV30.32. Written credit derivatives are
       subject to an additional treatment, as set out in LEV30.33 to LEV30.35.



 If, under a bank’s national accounting standards, there is no
                   accounting measure of exposure for certain derivative instruments
                   because they are held (completely) off-balance sheet, the bank must
                   use the sum of positive fair values of these derivatives as the
                   replacement cost.
 Note that cross-product netting is not permitted in determining the
                   leverage ratio exposure measure.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        How should banks perform netting under the leverage ratio for
                   derivatives and SFTs that are included in a cross-product netting
                   agreement?

                   Consistent with footnote 3 of LEV30.9, netting across product
                   categories (ie derivatives and SFTs) is not permitted for the purpose of
                   determining the Basel III leverage ratio exposure measure. However,
                   where a bank has a cross-product netting agreement in place that
                   meets the eligibility criteria of LEV30.20 to LEV30.21 it may choose to
                   perform netting separately in each product category provided that all
                   other conditions for netting in this product category that are applicable
                   to the Basel III leverage ratio are met.


30.10 For a single derivative exposure not covered by an eligible bilateral netting
      contract as specified in LEV30.20 to LEV30.21, the amount to be included in the
      exposure measure is determined as follows:




30.11 In the formula in LEV30.10:

       (1) “RC” is defined as the replacement cost of the contract (obtained by marking
           to market), where the contract has a positive value; and

       (2) “add on” is an amount for PFE over the remaining life of the contract
           calculated by applying an add-on factor to the notional principal amount of
           the derivative. The add-on factors are included in LEV30.12 and LEV30.14.

30.12 The following add-on factors apply to financial derivatives, based on residual
      maturity:


                                   Interest rates     Foreign exchange  and gold                   Precious    metals                                                                   except gold
    Other commodities
                                                         Equities                
                                                                   
                                                                             

        One year or less             0.0%         1.0%          6.0%          7.0%          10.0%

        Over one year to five
        years                        0.5%         5.0%          8.0%          7.0%          12.0%

        Over five years              1.5%         7.5%         10.0%          8.0%          15.0%

        Notes:

        1.    For contracts with multiple exchanges of principal, the factors are to be multiplied by
             the number of remaining payments in the contract.

        2.    For contracts that are structured to settle outstanding exposures following specified
             payment dates and where the terms are reset such that the market value of the
             contract is zero on these specified dates, the residual maturity would be set equal to
             the time until the next reset date. In the case of interest rate contracts with remaining
             maturities of more than one year that meet the above criteria, the add-on is subject to
             a floor of 0.5%.

        3.   Forwards, swaps, purchased options and similar derivative contracts not covered by
             any of the columns in this matrix are to be treated as “other commodities”.

        4.    No potential future credit exposure would be calculated for single currency floating /
             floating interest rate swaps; the credit exposure on these contracts would be evaluated
             solely on the basis of their mark-to-market value.



30.13 Supervisors will take care to ensure that add-ons are based on effective rather
      than apparent notional amounts. In the event that the stated notional amount is
      leveraged or enhanced by the structure of the transaction, banks must use the
      effective notional amount when determining PFE.

30.14 The following add-on factors apply to single-name credit derivatives:


                                                         Protection buyer       Protection seller

        Total return swaps

            "Qualifying" reference obligation                  5%                      5%

            "Non-qualifying" reference obligation              10%                    10%

        Credit default swaps

            "Qualifying" reference obligation                  5%                     5%**

            "Non-qualifying" reference obligation              10%                   10%**

        There will be no difference depending on residual maturity.

        ** The protection seller of a credit default swap shall only be subject to the add-on factor
        where it is subject to closeout upon the insolvency of the protection buyer while the
        underlying is still solvent. The add-on should then be capped to the amount of unpaid
        premiums.




       FAQ
       FAQ1         Single-name credit derivatives have their own add-on factors, as
                    specified in LEV30.14. Should an index credit default swap (CDS) be
                    treated the same or would it be in a different category?

                    For index CDS, banks must use the same PFE add-on factors as they
                    would use for single-name CDS.


30.15 Where the credit derivative is a first-to-default transaction, the add-on will be
      determined by the lowest credit quality underlying the basket, ie if there are any
      non-qualifying items in the basket, the non-qualifying reference obligation add-
      on should be used. For second and subsequent nth-to-default transactions,
      underlying assets should continue to be allocated according to the credit quality,
      ie the second or, respectively, nth lowest credit quality will determine the add-on
      for a second-to-default or an nth-to-default transaction, respectively.

30.16 The “qualifying” category includes securities issued by public sector entities and
      multilateral development banks, plus other securities that are:

       (1) rated investment grade4 by at least two credit rating agencies specified by
           the national authority; or



       (2) rated investment grade by one rating agency and not less than investment
           grade by any other rating agency specified by the national authority (subject
           to supervisory oversight); or

       (3) subject to supervisory approval, unrated, but deemed to be or comparable
           to investment grade credit quality by the reporting bank, and the issuer has
           securities listed on a recognised exchange.


       Footnotes
       4           Eg rated Baa or higher by Moody’s and BBB or higher by Standard &
                   Poor’s.


30.17 Each supervisory authority will be responsible for monitoring the application of
      these qualifying criteria, particularly in relation to the last criterion where the
      initial classification is essentially left to the reporting banks. National authorities
      will also have discretion to include within the qualifying category debt securities
      issued by banks in countries which have implemented the current framework,
      subject to the express understanding that supervisory authorities in such
      countries undertake prompt remedial action if a bank fails to meet the leverage
      ratio standards set forth in this framework. Similarly, national authorities will have
      discretion to include within the qualifying category debt securities issued by
      securities firms that are subject to equivalent rules.

30.18 Furthermore, the “qualifying” category shall include securities issued by
      institutions that are deemed to be equivalent to investment grade quality and
      subject to supervisory and regulatory arrangements comparable to those under
      this framework.

30.19 When an eligible bilateral netting contract is in place as specified in LEV30.20 to
      LEV30.21, the RC for the set of derivative exposures covered by the contract will
      be the net replacement cost and the add-on will be ANet as calculated in LEV30.22
       to LEV30.23.

30.20 For the purposes of the leverage ratio, the following will apply:

       (1) Banks may net transactions subject to novation under which any obligation
           between a bank and its counterparty to deliver a given currency on a given
           value date is automatically amalgamated with all other obligations for the
           same currency and value date, legally substituting one single amount for the
           previous gross obligations.
     (2) Banks may also net transactions subject to any legally valid form of bilateral
         netting not covered in LEV30.20(1), including other forms of novation.

     (3) In both cases LEV30.20(1) and LEV30.20(2), a bank will need to satisfy its
         national supervisors that it has:

         (a) a netting contract or agreement with the counterparty that creates a
             single legal obligation, covering all included transactions, such that the
             bank would have either a claim to receive or obligation to pay only the
             net sum of the positive and negative mark-to-market values of included
             individual transactions in the event a counterparty fails to perform due
             to any of the following: default, bankruptcy, liquidation or similar
             circumstances;

         (b) written and reasoned legal opinions that, in the event of a legal
             challenge, the relevant courts and administrative authorities would find
             the bank’s exposure to be such a net amount under:

               (i)     the law of the jurisdiction in which the counterparty is chartered
                       and, if the foreign branch of a counterparty is involved, then also
                       under the law of jurisdiction in which the branch is located;

               (ii)    the law that governs the individual transactions; and

               (iii) the law that governs any contract or agreement necessary to effect
                     the netting. The national supervisor, after consultation when
                     necessary with other relevant supervisors, must be satisfied that
                     the netting is enforceable under the laws of each of the relevant
                     jurisdictions; and

         (c)   procedures in place to ensure that the legal characteristics of netting
               arrangements are kept under review in the light of possible changes in
               relevant law.


  Thus, if any of these supervisors are dissatisfied about enforceability
                     under its laws, the netting contract or agreement will not meet the
                     condition and neither counterparty could obtain supervisory benefit.



30.21 Contracts containing walkaway clauses will not be eligible for netting for the
      purpose of calculating the leverage ratio requirements pursuant to this
      framework. A walkaway clause is a provision that permits a non-defaulting
      counterparty to make only limited payments, or no payment at all, to the estate
      of a defaulter, even if the defaulter is a net creditor.

30.22 Credit exposure on bilaterally netted forward transactions will be calculated as
      the sum of the net mark-to-market replacement cost, if positive, plus an add-on
      based on the notional underlying principal. The add-on for netted transactions (A
      Net
          ) will equal the weighted average of the gross add-on (AGross) and the gross
      add-on adjusted by the ratio of net current replacement cost to gross current
      replacement cost (NGR). This is expressed through the following formula:




30.23 In the formula in LEV30.22:

      (1) “NGR” is the level of net replacement cost/level of gross replacement cost
          for transactions subject to legally enforceable netting agreements.

      (2) “AGross” is the sum of individual add-on amounts (calculated by multiplying
          the notional principal amount by the appropriate add-on factors set out in
          LEV30.12 to LEV30.18) of all transactions subject to legally enforceable
          netting agreements with one counterparty.


 National authorities may permit a choice of calculating the NGR on a
                  counterparty by counterparty or on an aggregate basis for all
                  transactions that are subject to legally enforceable netting agreements.
                  If supervisors permit a choice of methods, the method chosen by the
                  institution is to be used consistently. Under the aggregate approach,
                  net negative current exposures to individual counterparties cannot be
                  used to offset net positive current exposures to others, ie for each
                  counterparty the net current exposure used in calculating the NGR is
                  the maximum of the net replacement cost or zero. Note that under the
                  aggregate approach, the NGR is to be applied individually to each
                  legally enforceable netting agreement so that the credit equivalent
                  amount will be assigned to the appropriate counterparty risk weight
                  category.



30.24 For the purposes of calculating potential future credit exposure to a netting
      counterparty for forward foreign exchange contracts and other similar contracts
      in which the notional principal amount is equivalent to cash flows, the notional
      principal is defined as the net receipts falling due on each value date in each
      currency. The reason for this is that offsetting contracts in the same currency
      maturing on the same date will have lower potential future exposure as well as
      lower current exposure.

30.25 Collateral received in connection with derivative contracts has two countervailing
      effects on leverage:

       (1) it reduces counterparty exposure; but

       (2) it can also increase the economic resources at the disposal of the bank, as
           the bank can use the collateral to leverage itself.

30.26 Collateral received in connection with derivative contracts does not necessarily
      reduce the leverage inherent in a bank’s derivatives position, which is generally
      the case if the settlement exposure arising from the underlying derivative
      contract is not reduced. As a general rule, collateral received may not be netted
      against derivative exposures whether or not netting is permitted under the bank’s
      operative accounting or risk-based framework. Hence, when calculating the
      exposure amount by applying LEV30.9 to LEV30.23, a bank must not reduce the
      exposure amount by any collateral received from the counterparty.

30.27 Similarly, with regard to collateral provided, banks must gross up their exposure
      measure by the amount of any derivatives collateral provided where the provision
      of that collateral has reduced the value of their balance sheet assets under their
      operative accounting framework.

30.28 In the treatment of derivative exposures for the purpose of the leverage ratio, the
      cash portion of variation margin exchanged between counterparties may be
      viewed as a form of pre-settlement payment, if the following conditions are met:

       (1) For trades not cleared through a qualifying central counterparty (QCCP) the
           cash received by the recipient counterparty is not segregated.

       (2) Variation margin is calculated and exchanged on a daily basis based on mark-
           to-market valuation of derivatives positions.

       (3) The cash variation margin is received in the same currency as the currency of
           settlement of the derivative contract.

       (4) Variation margin exchanged is the full amount that would be necessary to
           fully extinguish the mark-to-market exposure of the derivative subject to the
           threshold and minimum transfer amounts applicable to the counterparty.


     (5) Derivatives transactions and variation margins are covered by a single master
         netting agreement (MNA) between the legal entities that are the
         counterparties in the derivatives transaction. The MNA must explicitly
         stipulate that the counterparties agree to settle net any payment obligations
         covered by such a netting agreement, taking into account any variation
         margin received or provided if a credit event occurs involving either
         counterparty. The MNA must be legally enforceable and effective in all
         relevant jurisdictions, including in the event of default and bankruptcy or
         insolvency.

 A QCCP is defined as in CRE50.3.

 A Master MNA may be deemed to be a single MNA for this purpose.

To the extent that the criteria in this paragraph include the term
                 “master netting agreement”, this term should be read as including any
                 “netting agreement” that provides legally enforceable rights of offsets.
                 This is to take account of the fact that for netting agreements
                 employed by central counterparties (CCPs), no standardisation has
                 currently emerged that would be comparable with respect to over-the-
                 counter netting agreements for bilateral trading.


     FAQ
     FAQ1        What does currency of settlement mean?

                 Currency of settlement means any currency of settlement specified in
                 the derivative contract, governing qualifying MNA, or the credit
                 support annex to the qualifying MNA. In this context, MNA should be
                 read as including any netting agreement that provides legally
                 enforceable rights of offsets. This is to take account of the fact that, for
                 netting agreements employed by CCPs, no standardisation has
                 currently emerged that would be comparable with respect to over-the-
                 counter netting agreements for bilateral trading.

     FAQ2        What standards are banks expected to meet for MNAs to be legally
                 enforceable and effective?

                 An MNA is deemed to meet this criterion if it satisfies the conditions in
                 LEV30.20(3) and LEV30.21.

     FAQ3        The condition that cash variation margin must be calculated and
                 exchanged on a daily basis may not be met for certain types of cleared



                 derivatives (eg energy derivatives). Will any exception for the daily
                 calculation/exchange requirement be permitted for these types of
                 transactions?

                 To meet this criterion, derivative positions must be valued daily and
                 cash variation margin must be transferred daily to the counterparty or
                 to the counterparty’s account, as appropriate.

      FAQ4       In the case where cash variation margin is exchanged the next
                 morning to meet end-of-day market values, would the requirement of
                 LEV30.28(4) still be met?

                 Cash variation margin exchanged on the morning of the subsequent
                 trading day based on the previous, end-of-day market values would
                 meet this criterion, provided that the variation margin exchanged is the
                 full amount that would be necessary to fully extinguish the mark-to-
                 market exposure of the derivative subject to applicable threshold and
                 minimum transfer amounts.

      FAQ5       What is meant in LEV30.28 where it states that the cash received by
                 the recipient counterparty is not segregated?

                 Cash variation margin would satisfy the non-segregation criterion if
                 the recipient counterparty has no restrictions on the ability to use the
                 cash received (ie the cash variation margin received is used as its own
                 cash).

      FAQ6       Where a bank provides cash variation margin, it would not necessarily
                 have any knowledge of whether its counterparty has segregated the
                 cash or not. What standard would need to be met to fulfil this criterion?

                 This criterion would be met if the cash received by the recipient
                 counterparty is not required to be segregated by law, regulation or any
                 agreement with the counterparty.


30.29 If the conditions in LEV30.28 are met, the cash portion of variation margin
      received may be used to reduce the replacement cost portion of the leverage
      ratio exposure measure, and the receivables assets from cash variation margin
      provided may be deducted from the leverage ratio exposure measure as follows:


       (1) In the case of cash variation margin received, the receiving bank may reduce
           the replacement cost (but not the add-on portion) of the exposure amount
           of the derivative asset by the amount of cash received if the positive mark-to-
           market value of the derivative contract(s) has not already been reduced by

           the same amount of cash variation margin received under the bank’s
           operative accounting standard.

       (2) In the case of cash variation margin provided to a counterparty, the posting
           bank may deduct the resulting receivable from its leverage ratio exposure
           measure, where the cash variation margin has been recognised as an asset
           under the bank’s operative accounting framework.

30.30 Cash variation margin may not be used to reduce the PFE amount (including the
      calculation of the net-to-gross ratio, or NGR, as defined in LEV30.23).


       FAQ
       FAQ1        LEV30.30 mentions that cash variation margin may not be used in the
                   calculation of the NGR. Is this also the case when the conditions of
                   LEV30.28 are met?

                   Cash variation margin may not be used to reduce the NGR, even if the
                   conditions in LEV30.28 are fully met. Specifically, in the calculation of
                   the NGR, cash variation margin may not reduce the net replacement
                   cost (ie the numerator of the NGR) nor the gross replacement cost (ie
                   the denominator of the NGR).


30.31 Where a bank acting as clearing member (CM) offers clearing services to clients,
      the clearing member’s trade exposures to the central counterparty (CCP) that
      arise when the CM is obligated to reimburse the client for any losses suffered due
      to changes in the value of its transactions in the event that the CCP defaults, must
      be captured by applying the same treatment that applies to any other type of
      derivatives transactions. However, if the CM, based on the contractual
      arrangements with the client, is not obligated to reimburse the client for any
      losses suffered due to changes in the value of its transactions in the event that a
      QCCP defaults, the CM need not recognise the resulting trade exposures to the
      QCCP in the leverage ratio exposure measure.




   For the purposes of this paragraph, a CM is defined as in CRE50.4.

 For the purposes of LEV30.31 and LEV30.32, “trade exposures“ includes
                   initial margin irrespective of whether or not it is posted in a manner
                   that makes it remote from the insolvency of the CCP.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Can an entity affiliated to the bank acting as a CM be considered a
                   client in the sense and for the purposes of LEV30.31?

                   An entity affiliated to the bank acting as a CM may be considered a
                   client for the purposes of LEV30.31 if it is outside the relevant scope of
                   regulatory consolidation at the level at which the Basel III leverage
                   ratio is applied. In contrast, if an affiliate entity falls within the
                   regulatory scope of consolidation, the trade between the affiliate entity
                   and the CM is eliminated in the course of consolidation, but the CM
                   still has a trade exposure to the qualifying central counterparty, which
                   will be considered proprietary and the exemption in LEV30.31 no
                   longer applies.


30.32 Where a client enters directly into a derivatives transaction with the CCP and the
      CM guarantees the performance of its clients’ derivative trade exposures to the
      CCP, the bank acting as the clearing member for the client to the CCP must
      calculate its related leverage ratio exposure resulting from the guarantee as a
      derivative exposure as set out in LEV30.9 to LEV30.30, as if it had entered directly
      into the transaction with the client, including with regard to the receipt or
      provision of cash variation margin.

30.33 In addition to the CCR exposure arising from the fair value of the contracts,
      written credit derivatives create a notional credit exposure arising from the
      creditworthiness of the reference entity. The Committee therefore believes that it
      is appropriate to treat written credit derivatives consistently with cash
      instruments (eg loans, bonds) for the purposes of the exposure measure.




30.34 In order to capture the credit exposure to the underlying reference entity, in
      addition to the above CCR treatment for derivatives and related collateral, the
      effective notional amount referenced by a written credit derivative is to be
      included in the exposure measure. The effective notional amount of a written
      credit derivative may be reduced by any negative change in fair value amount
      that has been incorporated into the calculation of Tier 1 capital with respect to



       the written credit derivative. The resulting amount may be further reduced by the
       effective notional amount of a purchased credit derivative on the same reference
       name, provided:

       (1) the credit protection purchased is on a reference obligation which ranks pari
           passu with or is junior to the underlying reference obligation of the written
           credit derivative in the case of single name credit derivatives; and

       (2) the remaining maturity of the credit protection purchased is equal to or
           greater than the remaining maturity of the written credit derivative.


 The effective notional amount is obtained by adjusting the notional
                 amount to reflect the true exposure of contracts that are leveraged or
                 otherwise enhanced by the structure of the transaction.

Two reference names are considered identical only if they refer to the
                 same legal entity. For single-name credit derivatives, protection
                 purchased that references a subordinated position may offset
                 protection sold on a more senior position of the same reference entity
                 as long as a credit event on the senior reference asset would result in a
                 credit event on the subordinated reference asset. Protection purchased
                 on a pool of reference entities may offset protection sold on individual
                 reference names if the protection purchased is economically equivalent
                 to buying protection separately on each of the individual names in the
                 pool (this would, for example, be the case if a bank were to purchase
                 protection on an entire securitisation structure). If a bank purchases
                 protection on a pool of reference names, but the credit protection does
                 not cover the entire pool (ie the protection covers only a subset of the
                 pool, as in the case of an nth-to-default credit derivative or a
                 securitisation tranche), then offsetting is not permitted for the
                 protection sold on individual reference names. However, such
                 purchased protections may offset sold protections on a pool provided
                 the purchased protection covers the entirety of the subset of the pool
                 on which protection has been sold. In other words, offsetting may only
                 be recognised when the pool of reference entities and the level of
                 subordination in both transactions are identical.

The effective notional amount of a written credit derivative may be
                 reduced by any negative change in fair value reflected in the bank’s
                 Tier 1 capital provided the effective notional amount of the offsetting
                 purchased credit protection is also reduced by any resulting positive
                 change in fair value reflected in Tier 1 capital. Where a bank buys
                 credit protection through a total return swap and records the net
                 payments received as net income, but does not record offsetting
                 deterioration in the value of the written credit derivative (either
                 through reductions in fair value or by an addition to reserves) reflected
                 in Tier 1 capital, the credit protection will not be recognised for the
                 purpose of offsetting the effective notional amounts related to written
                 credit derivatives.

 For tranched products, the purchased protection must be on a
                 reference obligation with the same level of seniority.



     FAQ
     FAQ1      What is meant by “negative change in fair value”?

               A “negative change in fair value” is meant to refer to a negative fair
               value of a credit derivative that is recognised in Tier 1 capital. This
               treatment is consistent with the Committee’s communicated rationale
               that the effective notional amounts included in the exposure measure
               may be capped at the level of the maximum potential loss, which
               means that the maximum potential loss at the reporting date is the
               notional amount of the credit derivative minus any negative fair value
               that has already reduced Tier 1 capital.

               For example, if a written credit derivative had a positive fair value of 20
               on one date and has a negative fair value of 10 on a subsequent
               reporting date, the effective notional amount of the credit derivative
               may be reduced by 10. The effective notional amount cannot be
               reduced by 30. However, if at the subsequent reporting date the credit
               derivative has a positive fair value of 5, the effective notional amount
               cannot be reduced at all.

     FAQ2      Does the term “written credit derivative” as used in LEV30.34 apply
               exclusively to written credit default swaps (CDS) and total return swaps?

               For the purposes of LEV30.34, the term “written credit derivative” refers
               to a broad range of credit derivatives through which a bank effectively
               provides credit protection and is not limited solely to CDS and total
               return swaps.

     FAQ3      Please confirm the following interpretations of the first half of LEV30
               footnote 14: for the purposes of offsetting, (a) when a purchased credit
               derivative transaction exists, the effective notional amount of the
               written credit derivative may be reduced by any negative change in fair
               value reflected in Tier 1 capital provided that the effective notional
               amount of the offsetting purchased credit derivative is also reduced by
               any resulting positive change in fair value reflected in Tier 1 capital;
               and (b) when a purchased credit derivative transaction exists, and the
               effective notional amount of the purchased credit derivative has not
               been reduced by any resulting positive change in fair value reflected in
               Tier 1 capital, then the effective notional amount of the written credit
               derivative may only be offset if the effective notional amount of that
               written credit derivative has not been reduced by any negative change
               in fair value reflected in Tier 1 capital.

               The interpretations in the question are correct.


      FAQ4        Would tranched junior position hedges through credit derivatives that
                  meet the following criteria be eligible for offsetting: (i) the junior and
                  senior tranches are on the same pool of reference entities; (ii) the level
                  of seniority of the debt of each of the reference entities in the portfolio
                  is the same; (iii) the designated credit events for the credit protection
                  sold on the senior tranche, and purchased on the junior tranche, are
                  the same; and (iv) the anticipated economic recovery on the junior
                  tranched protection purchased is equal to or greater than the
                  anticipated economic loss on the senior tranched protection sold?

                  No. As described in LEV30 footnote 13, credit protection purchased
                  through a credit derivative on a pool of reference assets cannot offset a
                  written credit derivative unless both instruments reference the same
                  pool of reference assets and the level of subordination of both
                  transactions is identical.

      FAQ5        If a bank writes credit protection through a credit derivative for a client
                  and enters into a back-to-back trade with a CCP whereby it purchases
                  credit protection through a credit derivative on the same name, may
                  that purchased credit protection be used to offset the written protection
                  for the purposes of the Basel III leverage ratio?

                  Yes. A bank may offset the effective notional amount of a written credit
                  derivative sold to a client by means of a credit derivative on the same
                  underlying name purchased from a CCP provided that the criteria in
                  LEV30.34 are met.


30.35 Since written credit derivatives are included in the exposure measure at their
      effective notional amounts, and are also subject to add-on amounts for PFE, the
      exposure measure for written credit derivatives may be overstated. Banks may
      therefore choose to deduct the individual PFE add-on amount relating to a
      written credit derivative (which is not offset according to LEV30.34 and whose
      effective notional amount is included in the exposure measure) from their gross
      add-on in LEV30.9 to LEV30.23.


In these cases, where effective bilateral netting contracts are in place,
                  and when calculating as per LEV30.9
                  to LEV30.23, AGross may be reduced by the individual add-on amounts
                  (ie notionals multiplied by the appropriate add-on factors) which relate
                  to written credit derivatives whose notional amounts are included in
                  the leverage ratio exposure measure. However, no adjustments must be
                  made to NGR. Where effective bilateral netting contracts are not in
                  place, the PFE add-on may be set to zero in order to avoid the double-
                  counting described in this paragraph.


      FAQ
      FAQ1        What does the phrase “which is not offset according to LEV30.34” in
                  LEV30.35 mean? Does it refer to the case where neither of the two
                  deductions in the effective notional amount from an offsetting
                  purchased credit derivative, detailed in LEV30.34, is included?

                  The condition in LEV30.35 regarding the removal of a PFE add-on
                  associated with a written credit derivative from the Basel III leverage
                  ratio exposure measure refers only to the offset by credit protection
                  purchased through a credit derivative according to LEV30.34 and not to
                  the reduction of the effective notional amount as a result of the
                  negative change in fair value that has reduced Tier 1 capital.



Securities financing transaction exposures
30.36 SFTs are included in the exposure measure according to the treatment
      described below. The treatment recognises that secured lending and borrowing
      in the form of SFTs is an important source of leverage, and ensures consistent
      international implementation by providing a common measure for dealing with
      the main differences in the operative accounting frameworks.

 SFTs are transactions such as repurchase agreements, reverse
                  repurchase agreements, security lending and borrowing, and margin
                  lending transactions, where the value of the transactions depends on
                  market valuations and the transactions are often subject to margin
                  agreements.


30.37 For a bank acting as principal, the sum of the amounts below is to be included in
      the leverage ratio exposure measure.

       (1) Gross SFT assets recognised for accounting purposes (ie with no
           recognition of accounting netting), adjusted as follows:

           (a) excluding from the exposure measure the value of any securities
               received under an SFT, where the bank has recognised the securities as
               an asset on its balance sheet; and

           (b) cash payables and cash receivables in SFTs with the same counterparty
               may be measured net if all the following criteria are met:

                (i)    transactions have the same explicit final settlement date;

                (ii)   the right to set off the amount owed to the counterparty with the
                       amount owed by the counterparty is legally enforceable both
                       currently in the normal course of business and in the event of
                       default, insolvency and bankruptcy; and

                (iii) the counterparties intend to settle net, settle simultaneously, or the
                      transactions are subject to a settlement mechanism that results in
                      the functional equivalent of net settlement, that is, the cash flows
                      of the transactions are equivalent, in effect, to a single net amount
                      on the settlement date. To achieve such equivalence, both
                      transactions are settled through the same settlement system and
                      the settlement arrangements are supported by cash and/or
                      intraday credit facilities intended to ensure that settlement of both
                      transactions will occur by the end of the business day and the
                      linkages to collateral flows do not result in the unwinding of net
                      cash settlement.




     (2) A measure of CCR calculated as the current exposure without an add-on for
         PFE, calculated as follows:

         (a) Where a qualifying MNA is in place, the current exposure (E*) is the
             greater of zero and the total fair value of securities and cash lent to a
             counterparty for all transactions included in the qualifying MNA,
              less the total fair value of cash and securities received from the
              counterparty for those transactions. This is illustrated in the
              following formula:




         (b) Where no qualifying MNA is in place, the current exposure for
             transactions with a counterparty must be calculated on a transaction by
             transaction basis: that is, each transaction i is treated as its own netting
             set, as shown in the following formula:



For SFT assets subject to novation and cleared through QCCPs, “gross
                 SFT assets recognised for accounting purposes” are replaced by the
                 final contractual exposure, given that pre-existing contracts have been
                 replaced by new legal obligations through the novation process.

 Gross SFT assets recognised for accounting purposes must not
                 recognise any accounting netting of cash payables against cash
                 receivables (eg as currently permitted under the IFRS and US GAAP
                 accounting frameworks). This regulatory treatment has the benefit of
                 avoiding inconsistencies from netting which may arise across different
                 accounting regimes.

This may apply, for example, under US GAAP where securities received
                 under an SFT may be recognised as assets if the recipient has the right
                 to rehypothecate but has not done so.

This latter condition ensures that any issues arising from the securities
                 leg of the SFTs do not interfere with the completion of the net
                 settlement of the cash receivables and payables.

 A “qualifying” MNA is one that meets the requirements under LEV30.38
                 to LEV30.39.



     FAQ
     FAQ1      LEV30.37(1)(b)(iii) requires that the linkages to collateral flows between
               a reverse repo and repo settled on the same day not result in the
               unwinding of net cash settlement. What is meant by this requirement
               and what is the standard for meeting it? How should one interpret
               LEV30 footnote 21? Could you provide further clarity on this point, and
               examples of settlement system facilities that would be acceptable to
               qualify for netting and any that would not? Can the Basel Committee
               define in more detail what is meant by “net settlement” as described in
               LEV30.37(1)(b)(iii)? More specifically, does a transaction that has
               “failed” impact the ability of that transaction to be netted?

               LEV30.37(1)(b)(iii) and footnote 21 set out necessary requirements for
               settlement mechanisms which are used to settle cash payables and
               cash receivables in SFTs with the same counterparty in order to offset
               the cash payables against the cash receivables. Subject to the criteria of
               LEV30.37(1)(b)(i) and LEV30.37(1)(b)(ii) also being met, the
               requirements are that the transactions are subject to a settlement
               mechanism that results in the functional equivalence of net settlement,
               ie the cash flows of the transactions are equivalent, in effect, to a single
               net amount on the settlement date. To achieve such equivalence, all
               transactions must be settled through the same settlement mechanism.
               The failure of any single securities transaction in the settlement
               mechanism should delay settlement of only the matching cash leg or
               create an obligation to the settlement mechanism, supported by an
               associated credit facility.

               Further to the requirements set out in LEV30.37(1)(b)(iii) and footnote
               21, if there is a failure of the securities leg of a transaction in such a
               mechanism at the end of the window for settlement in the settlement
               mechanism, then this transaction and its matching cash leg must be
               split out from the netting set and treated gross for the purposes of the
               Basel III leverage ratio exposure measure.

               Specifically, the criteria in LEV30.37(1)(b)(iii) and footnote 21 are not
               intended to preclude a delivery-versus-payment settlement mechanism
               or other type of settlement mechanism, provided that the settlement
               mechanism meets the functional requirements set out in LEV30.37(1)(b)
               (iii). For example, a settlement mechanism may meet these functional
               requirements if any failed transaction (that is, the securities that failed
               to transfer and the related cash receivable or payable) can be re-
               entered in the settlement mechanism until they are settled.

     FAQ2      How should SFTs with no explicit end date but which can be unwound
               at any time by any counterparty be treated?


Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                             822/1626
               An SFT with no explicit end date but which can be unwound at any
               time by any counterparty (eg open repos) is not eligible for Basel III
               leverage ratio netting of SFTs, as it does not meet the condition set out
               in LEV30.37(1)(b)(i). This condition requires that, for Basel III leverage
               ratio netting, transactions must have the same explicit final settlement
               date.

     FAQ3      The Basel III leverage ratio framework refers to the “final contractual
               exposure” as a replacement for “gross SFT assets recognised for
               accounting purposes” for SFT assets cleared through QCCPs. Could you
               please define “final contractual exposure”?

               “Final contractual exposure” as set out in LEV30 footnote 18 refers to
               the exposure to the QCCP after the process of novation has been
               applied. However, banks can only net cash receivables and cash
               payables with a QCCP if the criteria in LEV30.37(1) are met. Any other
               netting permitted by the QCCP is not permitted for the purposes of the
               Basel III leverage ratio.

     FAQ4      Please clarify whether LEV30.37(1)(b)(ii) refers to the default,
               insolvency and bankruptcy of the counterparty or also of the reporting
               entity.

               LEV30.37(1)(b)(ii) provides that, for the purpose of measuring SFT
               assets on a net basis, “the right to set off the amount owed to the
               counterparty with the amount owed by the counterparty is legally
               enforceable both currently in the normal course of business and in the
               event of: (i) default; (ii) insolvency; and (iii) bankruptcy”. The references
               to the events of default, insolvency and bankruptcy apply to such
               events occurring at the counterparty, not at the reporting entity.

     FAQ5      When banks enter into repo transactions with customers, must the
               securities that banks deposit at triparty repo agents as collateral be
               considered as “securities lent to a counterparty” and therefore be
               included in the exposure (E) under LEV30.37(2)?

               For the purposes of LEV30.37(2), the term “counterparty” includes not
               only the counterparty of bilateral repo transactions but also triparty
               repo agents that receive collateral in deposit and manage the collateral
               in the case of triparty repo transactions. Therefore, securities deposited
               at triparty repo agents are included in “total value of securities and
               cash lent to a counterparty” (E) under LEV30.37(2), up to the amount
               effectively lent to the counterparty in a repo transaction. However,
               excess collateral that has been deposited at triparty repo agents but

                  has not yet been lent out in specific repo transactions should be
                  excluded.


30.38 The effects of bilateral netting agreements for covering SFTs will be recognised
      on a counterparty by counterparty basis if the agreements are legally enforceable
      in each relevant jurisdiction upon the occurrence of an event of default and
      regardless of whether the counterparty is insolvent or bankrupt. In addition,
      netting agreements must:

      (1) provide the non-defaulting party with the right to terminate and close out in
          a timely manner all transactions under the agreement upon an event of
          default, including in the event of insolvency or bankruptcy of the
          counterparty;

      (2) provide for the netting of gains and losses on transactions (including the
          value of any collateral) terminated and closed out under it so that a single
          net amount is owed by one party to the other;

      (3) allow for the prompt liquidation or setoff of collateral upon the event of
          default; and

      (4) be, together with the rights arising from provisions required in LEV30.38(1)
          and LEV30.38(3) above, legally enforceable in each relevant jurisdiction upon
          the occurrence of an event of default regardless of the counterparty’s
          insolvency or bankruptcy.

30.39 Netting across SFT positions held in the banking book and trading book will only
      be recognised when the netted transactions fulfil the following conditions:

      (1) all transactions are marked to market daily; and

      (2) the collateral instruments used in the transactions are recognised as eligible
          financial collateral in the banking book.

30.40 Leverage may remain with the lender of the security in an SFT whether or not sale
      accounting is achieved under the operative accounting framework. As such,
      where sale accounting is achieved for an SFT under the bank’s operative
      accounting framework, the bank must reverse all sales-related accounting entries,
      and then calculate its exposure as if the SFT had been treated as a financing
      transaction under the operative accounting framework (ie the bank must include
      the sum of amounts in LEV30.37(1) and LEV30.37(2) for such an SFT) for the
      purposes of determining its exposure measure.



30.41 A bank acting as agent in an SFT generally provides an indemnity or guarantee to
      only one of the two parties involved, and only for the difference between the

       value of the security or cash its customer has lent and the value of collateral the
       borrower has provided. In this situation, the bank is exposed to the counterparty
       of its customer for the difference in values rather than to the full exposure to the
       underlying security or cash of the transaction (as is the case where the bank is
       one of the principals in the transaction). Where the bank does not own/control
       the underlying cash or security resource, that resource cannot be leveraged by
       the bank.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        LEV30.41 states that a bank agent generally provides indemnity or
                   guarantee to only one of the two parties involved. Does this mean that
                   the treatments as set out in LEV30.42 and LEV30.43 apply only to this
                   case? If so, what is the treatment for the case where the bank agent
                   provides guarantee to both parties?

                   LEV30.41 to LEV30.43 explains the treatment of SFTs where a bank acts
                   as an agent between two parties of the transaction. It is assumed that
                   an agent bank generally provides an indemnity or guarantee to only
                   one party of the transaction and only for the difference between the
                   cash/securities lent and the collateral borrowed.

                   If an agent bank provides an indemnity or guarantee to both parties
                   involved in an SFT (ie securities lender and securities borrower), it must
                   calculate its Basel III leverage ratio exposure measure in accordance
                   with LEV30.41 to LEV30.43 separately for each party involved in that
                   transaction.


30.42 Where a bank acting as agent in an SFT provides an indemnity or guarantee to a
      customer or counterparty for any difference between the value of the security or
      cash the customer has lent and the value of collateral the borrower has provided,
      then the bank will be required to calculate its exposure measure by applying only
      LEV30.37(2)


 Where, in addition to the conditions in LEV30.41 to LEV30.43, a bank
                   acting as an agent in an SFT does not provide an indemnity or
                   guarantee to any of the involved parties, the bank is not exposed to the
                   SFT and therefore need not recognise those SFTs in its exposure
                   measure.


30.43 A bank acting as agent in an SFT and providing an indemnity or guarantee to a
      customer or counterparty will be considered eligible for the exceptional
      treatment set out in LEV30.42 only if the bank’s exposure to the transaction is
      limited to the guaranteed difference between the value of the security or cash its
      customer has lent and the value of the collateral the borrower has provided. In
      situations where the bank is further economically exposed (ie beyond the
      guarantee for the difference) to the underlying security or cash in the transaction,
      24
         a further exposure equal to the full amount of the security or cash must be
      included in the exposure measure.


       Footnotes
       24          For example, due to the bank managing collateral received in the bank’
                   s name or on its own account rather than on the customer’s or
                   borrower’s account (eg by on-lending or managing unsegregated
                   collateral, cash or securities).


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Please clarify the application of LEV30 footnote 24 to omnibus
                   accounts that are used by agent lenders to hold segregated client
                   collateral.

                   Under the condition that the bank calculates the exposure on a client
                   by client basis, for the purposes of the Basel III leverage ratio exposure
                   measure it does not matter how the bank elects to categorise its client
                   collateral provided that client collateral is segregated from the bank’s
                   proprietary assets and other relevant criteria, as described in LEV30.42
                   to LEV30.43, are met. Under those circumstances, LEV30 footnote 24
                   does not apply to omnibus accounts that are used by agent lenders to
                   hold and manage client collateral segregated from the agent bank’s
                   own assets.



Off-balance sheet items
30.44 This section explains the incorporation of off-balance sheet items as defined in
      the Basel II framework into the leverage ratio exposure measure. Off-balance
      sheet items include commitments (including liquidity facilities), whether or not
      unconditionally cancellable, direct credit substitutes, acceptances, standby letters
      of credit and trade letters of credit.

30.45 For the purpose of determining the exposure amount of off-balance sheet items
      for the leverage ratio, credit conversion factors (CCFs) set out in LEV30.46 to
      LEV30.53 must be applied to the notional amount.

These correspond to the CCFs of the standardised approach for credit
                   risk under CRE20, subject to a floor of 10%. The floor of 10% will affect
                   commitments that are unconditionally cancellable at any time by the
                   bank without prior notice, or that effectively provide for automatic
                   cancellation due to deterioration in a borrower’s creditworthiness.
                   These may receive a 0% CCF under the risk-based capital framework.


30.46 Commitments other than securitisation liquidity facilities with an original maturity
      up to one year and commitments with an original maturity over one year will
      receive a CCF of 20% and 50%, respectively. However, any commitments that are
      unconditionally cancellable at any time by the bank without prior notice, or that
      effectively provide for automatic cancellation due to deterioration in a borrower’s
      creditworthiness, will receive a 10% CCF.

In certain countries, retail commitments are considered unconditionally
                   cancellable if the terms permit the bank to cancel them to the full
                   extent allowable under consumer protection and related legislation.


30.47 Direct credit substitutes, eg general guarantees of indebtedness (including
      standby letters of credit serving as financial guarantees for loans and securities)
      and acceptances (including endorsements with the character of acceptances) will
      receive a CCF of 100%.

30.48 Forward asset purchases, forward forward deposits and partly paid shares and
      securities, which represent commitments with certain drawdown, will receive a
      CCF of 100%.



       FAQ
       FAQ1        What is the treatment of forward forward deposits, deliverable bond
                   futures and equity forward purchases under the Basel III leverage ratio
                   framework?

                   LEV30.44 to LEV30.45 provide that off-balance sheet items are
                   included in the Basel III leverage ratio exposure measure using the
                   CCFs as set out in LEV30.46 to LEV30.53, subject to the 10% CCF floor.
                   LEV30.48 provides that forward asset purchases, forward forward
                   deposits and partly paid shares and securities, which represent
                   commitments with certain drawdown, will receive a CCF of 100%.

                   The commitment to place or accept forward forward deposits under the
                   Basel III leverage ratio framework must be treated consistently with the
                   treatment for these commitments under the risk-based capital
                   framework. Specifically, the commitment to place forward forward
                   deposits is subject to a 100% CCF, as provided in LEV30.48, while the
                   commitment to accept forward forward deposits is treated as an
                   interest rate derivative. In addition, deliverable bond futures and over-
                   the-counter equity forward purchases must be treated as derivatives.


30.49 Certain transaction-related contingent items (eg performance bonds, bid bonds,
      warranties and standby letters of credit related to particular transactions) will
      receive a CCF of 50%.

30.50 Note issuance facilities and revolving underwriting facilities will receive a CCF of
      50%.

30.51 For short-term self-liquidating trade letters of credit arising from the movement
      of goods (eg documentary credits collateralised by the underlying shipment), a
      20% CCF will be applied to both issuing and confirming banks.

30.52 Where there is an undertaking to provide a commitment on an off-balance sheet
      item, banks are to apply the lower of the two applicable CCFs.

30.53 All off-balance sheet securitisation exposures, except an eligible liquidity facility
      or an eligible servicer cash advance facility as set out below, will receive a CCF of
      100%. All eligible liquidity facilities will receive a CCF of 50%. At national
      discretion, undrawn servicer cash advances or facilities that are unconditionally
      cancellable without prior notice may be eligible for a 10% CCF.



     (1) Banks are permitted to treat off-balance sheet securitisation exposures as
         eligible liquidity facilities if the following minimum requirements are satisfied:


         (a) The facility documentation must clearly identify and limit the
             circumstances under which it may be drawn. Draws under the facility
             must be limited to the amount that is likely to be repaid fully from the
             liquidation of the underlying exposures and any seller-provided credit
             enhancements. In addition, the facility must not cover any losses
             incurred in the underlying pool of exposures prior to a draw, or be
             structured such that draw-down is certain (as indicated by regular or
             continuous draws);

         (b) The facility must be subject to an asset quality test that precludes it
             from being drawn to cover credit risk exposures that are in default as
             defined in CRE36.69 to CRE36.76. In addition, if the exposures that a
             liquidity facility is required to fund are externally rated securities, the
             facility can only be used to fund securities that are externally rated
             investment grade at the time of funding;

         (c)   The facility cannot be drawn after all applicable (eg transaction-specific
               and programme-wide) credit enhancements from which the liquidity
               would benefit have been exhausted; and

         (d) Repayment of draws on the facility (ie assets acquired under a purchase
             agreement or loans made under a lending agreement) must not be
             subordinated to any interests of any note holder in the programme (eg
             asset-backed commercial paper programme) or subject to deferral or
             waiver.

     (2) Eligible servicer cash advance facilities: subject to national discretion, if
         contractually provided for, servicers may advance cash to ensure an
         uninterrupted flow of payments to investors so long as the servicer is
         entitled to full reimbursement and this right is senior to other claims on cash
         flows from the underlying pool of exposures.


                                 LCR
                                 Liquidity Coverage Ratio
                                 This standard describes the Liquidity Coverage
                                 Ratio, a measure which promotes the short-term
                                 resilience of a bank's liquidity risk profile.




                                 LCR10
                                 Definitions and application
                                 This chapter describes the scope of application
                                 of the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR), the
                                 treatment of home / host liquidity requirements
                                 and liquidity transfer restrictions, and the
                                 currency in which the LCR should be met and
                                 reported.


Scope of application
10.1   The application of the requirements of the liquidity coverage ratio (LCR) standard,
       set out in LCR, and the liquidity monitoring metrics, set out in SRP50, follow the
       existing scope of application set out in SCO10.1 to SCO10.4. The LCR standard
       and monitoring tools should be applied to all internationally active banks on a
       consolidated basis, but may be used for other banks and on any subset of entities
       of internationally active banks as well to ensure greater consistency and a level
       playing field between domestic and cross-border banks. The LCR standard and
       monitoring tools should be applied consistently wherever they are applied.

10.2   National supervisors should determine which investments in banking, securities
       and financial entities of a banking group that are not consolidated per LCR10.1
       should be considered significant, taking into account the liquidity impact of such
       investments on the group under the LCR standard. Normally, a non-controlling
       investment (eg a joint venture or minority-owned entity) can be regarded as
       significant if the banking group will be the main liquidity provider of such
       investment in times of stress (for example, when the other shareholders are non-
       banks or where the bank is operationally involved in the day-to-day management
       and monitoring of the entity’s liquidity risk). National supervisors should agree
       with each relevant bank on a case-by-case basis on an appropriate methodology
       for how to quantify such potential liquidity draws, in particular, those arising from
       the need to support the investment in times of stress out of reputational
       concerns for the purpose of calculating the LCR. To the extent that such liquidity
       draws are not included elsewhere, they should be treated under “Other
       contingent funding obligations”, as described in LCR40.70.

10.3   Regardless of the scope of application of the LCR, in keeping with Principle 6 as
       outlined in the Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk Management and Supervision,
       a bank should actively monitor and control liquidity risk exposures and funding
       needs at the level of individual legal entities, foreign branches and subsidiaries,
       and the group as a whole, taking into account legal, regulatory and operational
       limitations to the transferability of liquidity.


Differences in home / host liquidity requirements
10.4   While most of the parameters in the LCR standard are internationally
       “harmonised”, national differences in liquidity treatment may occur in those items
       subject to national discretion (eg deposit run-off rates, contingent funding
       obligations, market valuation changes on derivative transactions) and where
       more stringent parameters are adopted by some supervisors.

10.5

       When calculating the LCR on a consolidated basis, a cross-border banking group
       should apply the liquidity parameters adopted in the home jurisdiction to all legal
       entities being consolidated except for the treatment of retail / small business
       deposits that should follow the relevant parameters adopted in host jurisdictions
       in which the entities (branch or subsidiary) operate. This approach will enable the
       stressed liquidity needs of legal entities of the group (including branches of those
       entities) operating in host jurisdictions to be more suitably reflected, given that
       deposit run-off rates in host jurisdictions are more influenced by jurisdiction-
       specific factors such as the type and effectiveness of deposit insurance schemes
       in place and the behaviour of local depositors.

10.6   Home requirements for retail and small business deposits should apply to the
       relevant legal entities (including branches of those entities) operating in host
       jurisdictions if:

       (1) there are no host requirements for retail and small business deposits in the
           particular jurisdictions;

       (2) those entities operate in host jurisdictions that have not implemented the
           LCR; or

       (3) the home supervisor decides that home requirements should be used that
           are stricter than the host requirements.


Treatment of liquidity transfer restrictions
10.7   As noted in LCR30.21, as a general principle, no excess liquidity should be
       recognised by a cross-border banking group in its consolidated LCR if there is
       reasonable doubt about the availability of such liquidity. Liquidity transfer
       restrictions (eg ring-fencing measures, non-convertibility of local currency,
       foreign exchange controls) in jurisdictions in which a banking group operates will
       affect the availability of liquidity by inhibiting the transfer of high-quality liquid
       assets (HQLA) and fund flows within the group. The consolidated LCR should
       reflect such restrictions in a manner consistent with LCR30.21. For example, the
       eligible HQLA that are held by a legal entity being consolidated to meet its local
       LCR requirements (where applicable) can be included in the consolidated LCR to
       the extent that such HQLA are used to cover the total net cash outflows of that
       entity, notwithstanding that the assets are subject to liquidity transfer restrictions.
       If the HQLA held in excess of the total net cash outflows are not transferable,
       such surplus liquidity should be excluded from the LCR calculation.


10.8   For practical reasons, the liquidity transfer restrictions to be accounted for in the
       consolidated ratio are confined to existing restrictions imposed under applicable

       laws, regulations and supervisory requirements. A banking group should have
       processes in place to capture all liquidity transfer restrictions to the extent
       practicable, and to monitor the rules and regulations in the jurisdictions in which
       the group operates and assess their liquidity implications for the group as a
       whole.


     There are a number of factors that can impede cross-border liquidity
                   flows of a banking group, many of which are beyond the control of the
                   group and some of these restrictions may not be clearly incorporated
                   into law or may become visible only in times of stress.



Currencies
10.9   As outlined in LCR30.29, while the LCR must be met on a consolidated basis and
       reported in a common currency, supervisors and banks should also be aware of
       the liquidity needs in each significant currency. As indicated in the LCR standard,
       the currencies of the stock of HQLA should be similar in composition to the
       operational needs of the bank. Banks and supervisors cannot assume that
       currencies will remain transferable and convertible in a stress period, even for
       currencies that in normal times are freely transferable and highly convertible.




                                 LCR20
                                 Calculation
                                 This chapter explains how to calculate the
                                 Liquidity Coverage Ratio, the minimum
                                 requirement and banks' reporting obligations.

20.1   The Committee has developed the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) to promote the
       short-term resilience of the liquidity risk profile of banks by ensuring that they
       have sufficient high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) to survive a significant stress
       scenario lasting 30 calendar days.

20.2   The scenario for this standard entails a combined idiosyncratic and market-wide
       shock that would result in:

       (1) the run-off of a proportion of retail deposits;

       (2) a partial loss of unsecured wholesale funding;

       (3) a partial loss of secured, short-term financing with certain collateral and
           counterparties;

       (4) additional contractual outflows that would arise from a downgrade in the
           bank’s public credit rating by up to and including three notches, including
           collateral posting requirements;

       (5) increases in market volatilities that impact the quality of collateral or
           potential future exposure of derivative positions and thus require larger
           collateral haircuts or additional collateral, or lead to other liquidity needs;

       (6) unscheduled draws on committed but unused credit and liquidity facilities
           that the bank has provided to its clients; and

       (7) the potential need for the bank to buy back debt or honour non-contractual
           obligations in the interest of mitigating reputational risk.

20.3   This stress test should be viewed as a minimum supervisory requirement for
       banks. Banks are expected to conduct their own stress tests to assess the level of
       liquidity they should hold beyond this minimum, and construct their own
       scenarios that could cause difficulties for their specific business activities. Such
       internal stress tests should incorporate longer time horizons than the one
       mandated by this standard. Banks should share the results of these additional
       stress tests with supervisors.

20.4   The LCR has two components:

       (1) value of the stock of HQLA in stressed conditions; and

       (2) total net cash outflows, calculated according to the scenario parameters
           outlined in LCR30 and LCR40.

20.5   The LCR builds on traditional liquidity “coverage ratio” methodologies used
       internally by banks to assess exposure to contingent liquidity events. The total
       net cash outflows for the scenario are to be calculated for 30 calendar days into
       the future. The standard requires that, absent a situation of financial stress, the
       value of the ratio be no lower than 100% (ie the stock of HQLA should at least
       equal total net cash outflows) on an ongoing basis because the stock of
       unencumbered HQLA is intended to serve as a defence against the potential
       onset of liquidity stress., During periods of stress, however, it would be entirely
       appropriate for banks to use their stock of HQLA, thereby falling below the
       minimum. Supervisors will subsequently assess this situation and will give
       guidance on usability according to the circumstances.

20.6   In particular, supervisory decisions regarding a bank’s use of its HQLA should be
       guided by consideration of the core objective and definition of the LCR.
       Supervisors should exercise judgement in their assessment and account not only
       for prevailing macrofinancial conditions, but also consider forward-looking
       assessments of macroeconomic and financial conditions. In determining a
       response, supervisors should be aware that some actions could be procyclical if
       applied in circumstances of market-wide stress. Supervisors should seek to take
       these considerations into account on a consistent basis across jurisdictions.

       (1) Supervisors should assess conditions at an early stage, and take actions if
           deemed necessary, to address potential liquidity risk.

       (2) Supervisors should allow for differentiated responses to a reported LCR
           below 100%. Any potential supervisory response should be proportionate
           with the drivers, magnitude, duration and frequency of the reported shortfall.


     (3) Supervisors should assess a number of firm- and market-specific factors in
         determining the appropriate response, as well as other considerations
         related to both domestic and global frameworks and conditions. Potential
         considerations include, but are not limited to:

         (a) the reason(s) that the LCR fell below 100%. This includes use of the
             stock of HQLA, an inability to roll over funding or large unexpected
             draws on contingent obligations. In addition, the reasons may relate to
             overall credit, funding and market conditions, including liquidity in
             credit, asset and funding markets, affecting individual banks or all
             institutions, regardless of their own condition;

         (b) the extent to which the reported decline in the LCR is due to a firm-
             specific or market-wide shock;

         (c)   a bank’s overall health and risk profile, including activities, positions
               with respect to other supervisory requirements, internal risk systems,
               controls and other management processes, among others;

         (d) the magnitude, duration and frequency of the reported decline of HQLA;

         (e) the potential for contagion to the financial system and additional
             restricted flow of credit or reduced market liquidity due to actions to
             maintain an LCR of 100%; and

         (f)   the availability of other sources of contingent funding such as central
               bank funding, or other actions by prudential authorities.


       (4) Supervisors should have a range of tools at their disposal to address a
           reported LCR below 100%. Banks may use their stock of HQLA in both
           idiosyncratic and systemic stress events, although the supervisory response
           may differ between the two.

           (a) At a minimum, a bank should present an assessment of its liquidity
               position, including the factors that contributed to its LCR falling below
               100%, the measures that have been and will be taken and the
               expectations on the potential length of the situation. Enhanced
               reporting to supervisors should be commensurate with the duration of
               the shortfall.

           (b) If appropriate, supervisors could also require actions by a bank to
               reduce its exposure to liquidity risk, strengthen its overall liquidity risk
               management, or improve its contingency funding plan.

           (c)   However, in a situation of sufficiently severe system-wide stress, effects
                 on the entire financial system should be considered. Potential measures
                 to restore liquidity levels should be discussed, and should be executed
                 over a period of time considered appropriate to prevent additional
                 stress on the bank and on the financial system as a whole.

       (5) Supervisors’ responses should be consistent with the overall approach to the
           prudential framework.

 The Sound Principles require that a bank develop a contingency
                   funding plan (CFP) that clearly sets out strategies for addressing
                   liquidity shortfalls, in both firm-specific and market-wide situations of
                   stress. A CFP should, among other things, “reflect central bank lending
                   programmes and collateral requirements, including facilities that form
                   part of normal liquidity management operations (eg the availability of
                   seasonal credit).”


20.7   The LCR should be used on an ongoing basis to help monitor and control
       liquidity risk. The LCR must be reported to supervisors at least monthly, with the
       operational capacity to increase the frequency to weekly or even daily in stressed
       situations at the discretion of the supervisors. The time lag in reporting should be
       as short as feasible and ideally should not surpass two weeks.

20.8   Banks are expected to inform supervisors of their LCR and their liquidity profile
       on an ongoing basis. Banks must also notify supervisors immediately if their LCR
       has fallen, or is expected to fall, below 100%.

                   LCR30
                                 High-quality liquid assets
                                 This chapter defines the qualifying criteria for
                                 high-quality liquid assets.

Introduction
30.1   The numerator of the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) is the "stock of high-quality
       liquid assets (HQLA)". Under the standard, banks must hold a stock of
       unencumbered HQLA to cover the total net cash outflows (as defined in LCR40)
       over a 30-day period under the stress scenario prescribed in LCR20. In order to
       qualify as HQLA, assets should be liquid in markets during a time of stress and,
       ideally, be central bank eligible. The following paragraphs set out the
       characteristics that such assets should generally possess and the operational
       requirements that they should satisfy.1


       Footnotes
       1           Refer to the sections on “Definition of HQLA” (LCR30.30 to LCR30.47)
                   and “Operational requirements” (LCR30.13 to LCR30.28) for the
                   characteristics that an asset must meet to be part of the stock of HQLA
                   and the definition of “unencumbered” respectively.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Regarding the reform of benchmark reference rates, what guidance can
                   the Committee provide on the assessment of eligibility of instruments
                   as HQLA?

                   Solely for the purpose of implementing benchmark rate reforms, when
                   a type of instrument that references an interbank offered rate (IBOR)
                   and has historically qualified as eligible HQLA is being replaced with
                   an equivalent type of instrument that references an alternative
                   references rate, supervisors can take into account anticipated increases
                   in the liquidity of the replacement instrument during the transition
                   period when determining whether it qualifies as HQLA.



Characteristics of HQLA
30.2   Assets are considered to be HQLA if they can be easily and immediately
       converted into cash at little or no loss of value. The liquidity of an asset depends
       on the underlying stress scenario, the volume to be monetised and the timeframe
       considered. Nevertheless, there are certain assets that are more likely to generate
       funds without incurring large discounts in sale or repurchase agreement (repo)
       markets due to fire-sales even in times of stress. This section outlines the factors
       that influence whether or not the market for an asset can be relied upon to raise
       liquidity when considered in the context of possible stresses. These factors should
       assist supervisors in determining which assets, despite meeting the criteria from
       LCR30.40 to LCR30.45, are not sufficiently liquid in private markets to be included
       in the stock of HQLA.

30.3   As outlined by the characteristics described below, the test of whether liquid
       assets are of “high quality” is that, by way of sale or repo, their liquidity-
       generating capacity is assumed to remain intact even in periods of severe
       idiosyncratic and market stress. Lower-quality assets typically fail to meet that
       test. An attempt by a bank to raise liquidity from lower-quality assets under
       conditions of severe market stress would entail acceptance of a large fire-sale
       discount or haircut to compensate for high market risk. That may not only erode
       the market’s confidence in the bank, but would also generate mark-to-market
       losses for banks holding similar instruments and add to the pressure on their
       liquidity position, thus encouraging further fire sales and declines in prices and
       market liquidity. In these circumstances, private market liquidity for such
       instruments is likely to disappear quickly.

30.4   HQLA (except Level 2B assets as defined below in LCR30.44 to LCR30.46) should
       ideally be eligible at central banks for intraday liquidity needs and overnight
       liquidity facilities. In the past, central banks have provided a further backstop to
       the supply of banking system liquidity under conditions of severe stress. Central
       bank eligibility should thus provide additional confidence that banks are holding
       assets that could be used in events of severe stress without damaging the
       broader financial system. That in turn would raise confidence in the safety and
       soundness of liquidity risk management in the banking system.



In most jurisdictions, HQLA should be central bank eligible in addition
                   to being liquid in markets during stressed periods. In jurisdictions
                   where central bank eligibility is limited to an extremely narrow list of
                   assets, a supervisor may allow unencumbered, non-central bank
                   eligible assets that meet the qualifying criteria for Level 1 or Level 2
                   assets to count as part of its stock (see Definition of HQLA beginning
                   from LCR30.30).


30.5   However, central bank eligibility does not by itself constitute the basis for the
       categorisation of an asset as HQLA.


Fundamental characteristics
30.6   Low risk: assets that are less risky tend to have higher liquidity. High credit
       standing of the issuer and a low degree of subordination increase an asset’s
       liquidity. Low sensitivity to interest rate and market risk, low legal risk, low
       inflation risk and denomination in a convertible currency with low foreign
       exchange risk all enhance an asset’s liquidity.

30.7   Ease and certainty of valuation: an asset’s liquidity increases if market participants
       are more likely to agree on its valuation. Assets with more standardised,
       homogenous and simple structures tend to be more fungible, promoting
       liquidity. The pricing formula of a high-quality liquid asset must be easy to
       calculate and not depend on strong assumptions. The inputs into the pricing
       formula must also be publicly available. In practice, this should exclude most
       structured or exotic products.

30.8   Low correlation with risky assets: the stock of HQLA should not be subject to
       wrong-way (highly correlated) risk. For example, assets issued by financial
       institutions are more likely to be illiquid in times of liquidity stress in the banking
       sector.

30.9   Listed on a developed and recognised exchange: being listed increases an asset’s
       transparency.


Market-related characteristics:
30.10 Active and sizable market: the asset should have active outright sale or repo
      markets at all times. This means that:



       (1) There should be historical evidence of market breadth and market depth.
           This could be demonstrated by low bid-ask spreads, high trading volumes,

           and a large and diverse number of market participants. Diversity of market
           participants reduces market concentration and increases the reliability of the
           liquidity in the market.

       (2) There should be robust market infrastructure in place. The presence of
           multiple committed market makers increases liquidity as quotes will most
           likely be available for buying or selling HQLA.

30.11 Low volatility: Assets whose prices remain relatively stable and are less prone to
      sharp price declines over time will have a lower probability of triggering forced
      sales to meet liquidity requirements. Volatility of traded prices and spreads over
      benchmarks are simple proxy measures of market volatility. There should be
      historical evidence of relative stability of market terms (eg prices and haircuts)
      and volumes during stressed periods.

30.12 Flight to quality: historically, the market has shown tendencies to move into these
      types of assets in a systemic crisis. The correlation between proxies of market
      liquidity and banking system stress is one simple measure that could be used.


Operational requirements
30.13 All assets in the stock of HQLA are subject to the following operational
      requirements. The purpose of the operational requirements is to recognise that
      not all assets outlined in LCR30.40 to LCR30.45 that meet the asset class, risk-
      weighting and credit-rating criteria should be eligible for the stock as there are
      other operational restrictions on the availability of HQLA that can prevent timely
      monetisation during a stress period.

30.14 These operational requirements are designed to ensure that the stock of HQLA is
      managed in such a way that the bank can, and is able to demonstrate that it can,
      immediately use the stock of assets as a source of contingent funds; and that the
      stock of assets is available for the bank to convert into cash through outright sale
      or repo, to fill funding gaps between cash inflows and outflows at any time
      during the 30-day stress period, with no restriction on the use of the liquidity
      generated.
30.15 A bank must periodically monetise a representative proportion of the assets in
      the stock through repo or outright sale, in order to test its access to the market,
      the effectiveness of its processes for monetisation, the availability of the assets,
      and to minimise the risk of negative signalling during a period of actual stress.
      This requirement for periodic monetisation may be satisfied by transactions
      carried out through a bank’s normal course of business.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        What is “a representative proportion of the assets in the stock” banks
                   are supposed to “periodically monetise … through repo or outright
                   sale”?

                   The extent, subject and frequency of HQLA monetisation necessary to
                   comply with LCR30.15 should be assessed on a case by case basis. It is
                   generally the responsibility of banks to incorporate the intent of LCR30.
                   15 in their management of liquid assets and be able to demonstrate to
                   supervisors an approach which is appropriate rather than ex ante
                   stipulations.


30.16 All assets in the stock must be unencumbered. “Unencumbered” means free of
      legal, regulatory, contractual or other restrictions on the ability of the bank to
      liquidate, sell, transfer or assign the asset. An asset in the stock must not be
      pledged (either explicitly or implicitly) to secure, collateralise or credit-enhance
      any transaction, nor be designated to cover operational costs (such as rents and
      salaries). Assets received in reverse repo and securities financing transactions that
      are held at the bank, have not been rehypothecated, and are legally and
      contractually available for the bank's use, can be considered as part of the stock
      of HQLA. In addition, assets which qualify for the stock of HQLA that have been
      pre-positioned or deposited with, or pledged to, the central bank or a public
      sector entity (PSE) but have not been used to generate liquidity may be included
      in the stock.


 If a bank has deposited, pre-positioned or pledged Level 1, Level 2 and
                   other assets in a collateral pool and no specific securities are assigned
                   as collateral for any transactions, it may assume that assets are
                   encumbered in order of increasing liquidity value in the LCR, ie assets
                   ineligible for the stock of HQLA are assigned first, followed by Level 2B
                   assets, then Level 2A and finally Level 1. This determination must be
                   made in compliance with any requirements, such as concentration or
                   diversification, of the central bank or PSE.




       FAQ
       FAQ1       A bank has a reverse repurchase agreement, receiving collateral that
                  consists of a pool of assets including non-HQLA. Can the whole portion
                  of Level 1 and Level 2 assets of the collateral basket be counted
                  towards HQLA (subject to the other requirements on HQLA-eligible
                  assets)?

                  An HQLA-eligible asset received as a component of a pool of collateral
                  for a secured transaction (eg reverse repo) can be included in the stock
                  of HQLA (with associated haircuts) to the extent that it can be
                  monetised separately.

       FAQ2       If a bank pledges a pool of HQLA and non-HQLA collateral with a
                  clearing entity such as a central counterparty against secured funding
                  transactions, may it count any HQLA-eligible securities that are held as
                  part of the collateral pool, but remain unused at end-of-day as part of
                  the stock of HQLA? Does this requirement apply to derivatives as well?

                  The bank may count the unused portion of HQLA-eligible collateral
                  pledged towards its stock of HQLA (with associated haircuts). If the
                  bank cannot determine which specific assets remain unused, it may
                  assume that assets are encumbered in order of increasing liquidity
                  value, consistent with the methodology set out in footnote 3 of LCR30.
                  Assets in a pool that is intended to (exclusively or additionally)
                  collateralise derivatives transactions are not readily available within
                  the meaning of the operational requirements.


30.17 A bank must exclude from the stock those assets that, although meeting the
      definition of “unencumbered” specified in LCR30.16, the bank does not have the
      operational capability to monetise to meet outflows during the stress period.
      Operational capability to monetise assets requires having procedures and
      appropriate systems in place, including providing the function identified in LCR30.
      18 with access to all necessary information to execute monetisation of any asset
      at any time. Monetisation of the asset must be executable, from an operational
      perspective, in the standard settlement period for the asset class in the relevant
      jurisdiction.

30.18 The stock must be under the control of the function charged with managing the
      liquidity of the bank (eg the treasurer), meaning the function has the continuous
      authority, and legal and operational capability, to monetise any asset in the stock.
      Control must be evidenced either by maintaining assets in a separate pool
      managed by the function with the sole intent for use as a source of contingent
      funds, or by demonstrating that the function can monetise the asset at any point
       in the 30-day stress period and that the proceeds of doing so are available to the
       function throughout the 30-day stress period without directly conflicting with a
       stated business or risk-management strategy. For example, an asset should not
       be included in the stock if the sale of that asset, without replacement throughout
       the 30-day period, would remove a hedge that would create an open risk
       position in excess of internal limits.

30.19 A bank is permitted to hedge the market risk associated with ownership of the
      stock of HQLA and still include the assets in the stock. If it chooses to hedge the
      market risk, the bank must take into account (in the market value applied to each
      asset) the cash outflow that would arise if the hedge were to be closed out early
      (in the event of the asset being sold).

30.20 In accordance with Principle 9 of the Sound Principles, a bank “should monitor
      the legal entity and physical location where collateral is held and how it may be
      mobilised in a timely manner”. Specifically, it should have a policy in place that
      identifies legal entities, geographical locations, currencies and specific custodial
      or bank accounts where HQLA are held. In addition, the bank should determine
      whether any such assets should be excluded for operational reasons and
      therefore have the ability to determine the composition of its stock on a daily
      basis.

30.21 As noted in LCR10.7 and LCR10.8, qualifying HQLA that are held to meet
      statutory liquidity requirements at the legal entity or sub-consolidated level
      (where applicable) may only be included in the stock at the consolidated level to
      the extent that the related risks (as measured by the legal entity’s or sub-
      consolidated group’s net cash outflows in the LCR) are also reflected in the
      consolidated LCR. Any surplus of HQLA held at the legal entity can only be
      included in the consolidated stock if those assets would also be freely available to
      the consolidated (parent) entity in times of stress.

30.22 In assessing whether assets are freely transferable for regulatory purposes, banks
      should be aware that assets may not be freely available to the consolidated entity
      due to regulatory, legal, tax, accounting or other impediments. Assets held in
      legal entities without market access should only be included to the extent that
      they can be freely transferred to other entities that could monetise the assets.


30.23 In certain jurisdictions, large, deep and active repo markets do not exist for
      eligible asset classes, and therefore such assets are likely to be monetised
       through outright sale. In these circumstances, a bank must exclude from the stock
       of HQLA those assets where there are impediments to sale, such as large fire-sale
       discounts which would cause it to breach minimum solvency requirements, or
       requirements to hold such assets, including, but not limited to, statutory
       minimum inventory requirements for market-making.

30.24 Banks must not include in the stock of HQLA any assets, or liquidity generated
      from assets, they have received under right of rehypothecation, if the beneficial
      owner has the contractual right to withdraw those assets during the 30-day stress
      period.

 Refer to LCR40.79 for the appropriate treatment if the contractual
                   withdrawal of such assets would lead to a short position (eg because
                   the bank had used the assets in longer-term securities financing
                   transactions).


30.25 Assets received as collateral for derivatives transactions that are not segregated
      and are legally able to be rehypothecated may be included in the stock of HQLA
      provided that the bank records an appropriate outflow for the associated risks as
      set out in LCR40.49.

30.26 As stated in Principle 8 of the Sound Principles, a bank should actively manage its
      intraday liquidity positions and risks to meet payment and settlement obligations
      on a timely basis under both normal and stressed conditions and thus contribute
      to the smooth functioning of payment and settlement systems. Banks and
      regulators should be aware that the LCR stress scenario does not cover expected
      or unexpected intraday liquidity needs.

30.27 While the LCR must be met and reported in a single currency, banks should be
      able to meet their liquidity needs in each currency and maintain HQLA consistent
      with the distribution of their liquidity needs by currency. The bank should be able
      to use the stock to generate liquidity in the currency and jurisdiction in which the
      net cash outflows arise. As such, the LCR by currency should be monitored and
      reported to allow the bank and its supervisor to track any potential currency
      mismatch issues that could arise, as outlined in SRP50. In managing foreign
      exchange liquidity risk, the bank should take into account the risk that its ability
      to swap currencies and access the relevant foreign exchange markets may erode
      rapidly under stressed conditions. It should be aware that sudden, adverse
      exchange rate movements could sharply widen existing mismatched positions
      and alter the effectiveness of any foreign exchange hedges in place.

30.28 In order to mitigate cliff effects that could arise, if an eligible liquid asset became
      ineligible (eg due to rating downgrade), a bank is permitted to keep such assets
      in its stock of liquid assets for an additional 30 calendar days. This would allow
      the bank additional time to adjust its stock as needed or replace the asset.


Diversification of the stock of HQLA
30.29 The stock of HQLA should be well diversified within the asset classes themselves
      (except for sovereign debt of the bank’s home jurisdiction or from the jurisdiction
      in which the bank operates; central bank reserves; central bank debt securities;
      and cash). Although some asset classes are more likely to remain liquid
      irrespective of circumstances, ex ante it is not possible to know with certainty
      which specific assets within each asset class might be subject to shocks ex post.
      Banks should therefore have policies and limits in place in order to avoid
      concentration with respect to asset types, issue and issuer types, and currency
      (consistent with the distribution of net cash outflows by currency) within asset
      classes.


Definition of HQLA
30.30 The stock of HQLA should comprise assets with the characteristics outlined in
      LCR30.2 to LCR30.12. This section describes the type of assets that meet these
      characteristics and can therefore be included in the stock.

30.31 There are two categories of assets that can be included in the stock. Assets to be
      included in each category are those that the bank is holding on the first day of
      the stress period, irrespective of their residual maturity. “Level 1” assets can be
      included without limit, while “Level 2” assets can only comprise up to 40% of the
      stock.

30.32

        Some jurisdictions may have an insufficient supply of Level 1 assets (or both Level
        1 and Level 2 assets) in their domestic currency to meet the aggregate demand
        of banks with significant exposures in this currency. To address this situation, the
        Committee has developed alternative treatments for holdings in the stock of
        HQLA, which are expected to apply to a limited number of currencies and
        jurisdictions. These alternative treatments and the eligibility criteria are set out in
        LCR31.

30.33 Supervisors may also choose to include within Level 2 an additional class of
      assets (Level 2B assets). If included, these assets must not comprise more than
      15% of the total stock of HQLA. They must also be included within the overall
      40% cap on Level 2 assets.

30.34 The 40% cap on Level 2 assets and the 15% cap on Level 2B assets must be
      determined after the application of required haircuts, and after taking into
      account the unwind of short-term securities financing transactions and collateral
      swap transactions maturing within 30 calendar days that involve the exchange of
      HQLA.

30.35 The maximum amount of adjusted Level 2 assets is equal to two-thirds of the
      adjusted amount of Level 1 assets after haircuts have been applied. The
      calculation of the 40% cap on Level 2 assets will take into account any reduction
      in eligible Level 2B assets on account of the 15% cap on Level 2B assets.


  When determining the calculation of the 15% and 40% caps,
                    supervisors may, as an additional requirement, separately consider the
                    size of the pool of Level 2 and Level 2B assets on an unadjusted basis.


30.36 Further, the calculation of the 15% cap on Level 2B assets must take into account
      the impact on the stock of HQLA of the amounts of HQLA involved in secured
      funding, secured lending and collateral swap transactions maturing within 30
      calendar days. The maximum amount of adjusted Level 2B assets is equal to the
      ratio of 15/85 times the sum of the adjusted amounts of Level 1 and Level 2A
      assets, or, in cases where the 40% cap is binding, up to a maximum of 1/4 times
      the adjusted amount of Level 1 assets, both after haircuts have been applied.



30.37 The adjusted amount of Level 1 assets is defined as the amount of Level 1 assets
      that would result after unwinding those short-term secured funding, secured
      lending and collateral swap transactions involving the exchange of any HQLA for
      any Level 1 assets (including cash) that meet, or would meet if held
      unencumbered, the operational requirements for HQLA set out in LCR30.13 to
       LCR30.25. The adjusted amount of Level 2A assets is defined as the amount of
       Level 2A assets that would result after unwinding those short-term secured
       funding, secured lending and collateral swap transactions involving the exchange
       of any HQLA for any Level 2A assets that meet, or would meet if held
       unencumbered, the operational requirements for HQLA set out in LCR30.13 to
       LCR30.25. The adjusted amount of Level 2B assets is defined as the amount of
       Level 2B assets that would result after unwinding those short-term secured
       funding, secured lending and collateral swap transactions involving the exchange
       of any HQLA for any Level 2B assets that meet, or would meet if held
       unencumbered, the operational requirements for HQLA set out in LCR30.13 to
       LCR30.25. In cases where collateral received in a short-term secured lending or
       collateral swap transaction would meet the operational requirements if held
       unencumbered, but has been rehypothecated in a short-term secured funding or
       collateral swap transaction, both transactions must be unwound for the purpose
       of calculating the adjusted HQLA amounts. In this context, short-term
       transactions are transactions with a maturity date up to and including 30 calendar
       days. Relevant haircuts must be applied prior to calculation of the respective
       caps.

30.38 The formula for the calculation of the stock of HQLA is as follows:



30.39 In the formula in LCR30.38, the adjustments for the 15% and the 40% are
      calculated as follows:


Level 1 assets
30.40 Level 1 assets can comprise an unlimited share of the pool and are not subject to
      a haircut under the LCR. However, national supervisors may wish to require
      haircuts for Level 1 securities based on, among other things, their sensitivity to
      interest rate and market risk, credit and liquidity risk, and typical repo haircuts.

For purpose of calculating the LCR, Level 1 assets in the stock of HQLA
                       must be measured at an amount no greater than their current market
                       value.


30.41 Level 1 assets are limited to:

       (1) coins and banknotes;

       (2) central bank reserves (including required reserves), to the extent that the
           central bank policies allow them to be drawn down in times of stress;

       (3) marketable securities representing claims on or guaranteed by sovereigns,
           central banks, PSEs, the Bank for International Settlements, the International
           Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and European Community, the
           European Stability Mechanism, the European Financial Stability Facility or
           multilateral development banks, and satisfying all of the following
           conditions:

            (a) assigned a 0% risk weight under the standardised approach to credit
                risk;

            (b) traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets, characterised by
                a low level of concentration;

            (c)   have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in the markets
                  (through repo or outright sale) even during stressed market conditions;
                  and

            (d) not an obligation of a financial institution or any of its affiliated entities.
                  11


       (4) where the sovereign has a non-0% risk weight, sovereign or central bank
           debt securities issued in domestic currencies by the sovereign or central
           bank in the country in which the liquidity risk is being taken or in the bank’s
           home country; and


     (5) where the sovereign has a non-0% risk weight, domestic sovereign or central
         bank debt securities issued in foreign currencies are eligible up to the
         amount of the bank’s stressed net cash outflows in that specific foreign
         currency stemming from the bank’s operations in the jurisdiction where the
         bank’s liquidity risk is being taken.


 In this context, central bank reserves would include banks’ overnight
                 deposits with the central bank, and term deposits with the central
                 bank: (i) that are explicitly and contractually repayable on notice from
                 the depositing bank; or (ii) that constitute a loan against which the
                 bank can borrow on a term basis or on an overnight but automatically
                 renewable basis (only where the bank has an existing deposit with the
                 relevant central bank). Other term deposits with central banks are not
                 eligible for the stock of HQLA; however, if the term expires within 30
                 days, the term deposit could be considered as an inflow per LCR40.87.

 Local supervisors should discuss and agree with the relevant central
                 bank the extent to which central bank reserves should count towards
                 the stock of liquid assets, ie the extent to which reserves are able to be
                 drawn down in times of stress.

The Basel III liquidity framework follows the categorisation of market
                 participants applied in CRE20, unless otherwise specified.

This paragraph includes only marketable securities that qualify for
                 CRE20.4. When a 0% risk-weight has been assigned at national
                 discretion according to the provision in CRE20.5, the treatment should
                 follow LCR30.41(4) or LCR30.41(5).

This requires that the holder of the security must not have recourse to
                 the financial institution or any of the financial institution's affiliated
                 entities. In practice, this means that securities, such as government-
                 guaranteed issuance during the financial crisis, which remain liabilities
                 of the financial institution, would not qualify for the stock of HQLA. The
                 only exception is when the bank also qualifies as a PSE under CRE20
                 where securities issued by the bank could qualify for Level 1 assets if all
                 necessary conditions are satisfied.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       Does “the sovereign” in LCR30.41(4) and LCR30.41(5) refer to the bank’
                  s home country, host country, the country in which the bank does not
                  have any presence but has liquidity risk exposure denominated in that
                  currency, or all of them?

                  Sovereign and central bank debt securities, even with a rating below
                  AA–, should be considered eligible as Level 1 assets only when these
                  assets are issued by the sovereign or central bank in the bank’s home
                  country or in host countries where the bank has a presence via a
                  subsidiary or branch. Therefore, LCR30.41(4) and LCR30.41(5) do not
                  apply to a country in which the bank’s only presence is liquidity risk
                  exposures denominated in the currency of that country.

       FAQ2       In LCR30.41(5), could a bank use non-0% risk-weighted sovereign or
                  central bank debt securities issued in foreign currencies to offset the
                  amount of that specific foreign currency exposure in a country other
                  than the issuing sovereign’s or central bank’s home country?

                  In LCR30.41(5), the amount of non-0% risk-weighted sovereign/central
                  bank debt issued in foreign currencies included in Level 1 is strictly
                  limited to the foreign currency exposure in the jurisdiction of the
                  issuing sovereign/central bank.



Level 2 assets
30.42 Level 2 assets (comprising Level 2A assets and any Level 2B assets permitted by
      the supervisor) can be included in the stock of HQLA, subject to the requirement
      that they comprise no more than 40% of the overall stock after haircuts have
      been applied. The method for calculating the cap on Level 2 assets and the cap
      on Level 2B assets is set out in LCR30.34 to LCR30.39.

30.43 A 15% haircut is applied to the current market value of each Level 2A asset held
      in the stock of HQLA. Level 2A assets are limited to the following:

     (1) Marketable securities representing claims on or guaranteed by sovereigns,
         central banks, PSEs or multilateral development banks that satisfy all of the
         following conditions:

         (a) assigned a 20% risk weight under CRE20;

         (b) traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets characterised by a
             low level of concentration;


         (c)   have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in the markets
               (through repo or outright sale) even during stressed market conditions
               (ie maximum decline of price not exceeding 10% or increase in haircut
               not exceeding 10 percentage points over a 30-day period during a
               relevant period of significant liquidity stress); and

         (d) not an obligation of a financial institution or any of its affiliated entities.
               


     (2) Corporate debt securities (including commercial paper) and covered bonds
         
            that satisfy all the following conditions:

         (a) in the case of corporate debt securities: not issued by a financial
             institution or any of its affiliated entities;

         (b) in the case of covered bonds: not issued by the bank itself or any of its
             affiliated entities;

         (c)   either:

               (i)   have a long-term credit rating from a recognised external credit
                     assessment institution (ECAI) of at least AA-16 or in the absence of a
                     long-term rating, a short-term rating equivalent in quality to the
                     long-term rating; or

               (ii) do not have a credit assessment by a recognised ECAI but are
                    internally rated as having a probability of default (PD)
                    corresponding to a credit rating of at least AA-;

         (d) traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets characterised by a
             low level of concentration; and

         (e) have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in the markets
             (through repo or outright sale) even during stressed market conditions:
             ie maximum decline of price or increase in haircut over a 30-day period
             during a relevant period of significant liquidity stress not exceeding
             10%.


LCR30.41(4) or LCR30.41(5) may overlap with LCR30.43(1) in terms of
                 sovereign and central bank securities with a 20% risk weight. In such a
                 case, the assets can be assigned to the Level 1 category according to
                 LCR30.41(4) or LCR30.41(5), as appropriate.

 This requires that the holder of the security must not have recourse to
                 the financial institution or any of the financial institution's affiliated
                 entities. In practice, this means that securities, such as government-
                 guaranteed issuance during the financial crisis, which remain liabilities
                 of the financial institution, would not qualify for the stock of HQLA. The
                 only exception is when the bank also qualifies as a PSE under CRE20
                 where securities issued by the bank could qualify for Level 1 assets if all
                 necessary conditions are satisfied.

 Corporate debt securities (including commercial paper) in this respect
                 include only plain-vanilla assets whose valuation is readily available
                 based on standard methods and does not depend on private
                 knowledge, ie these do not include complex structured products or
                 subordinated debt.

  Covered bonds are bonds issued and owned by a bank or mortgage
                 institution and are subject by law to special public supervision designed
                 to protect bondholders. Proceeds deriving from the issue of these bonds
                 must be invested in conformity with the law in assets which, during the
                 whole period of the validity of the bonds, are capable of covering
                 claims attached to the bonds and which, in the event of the failure of
                 the issuer, would be used on a priority basis for the reimbursement of
                 the principal and payment of the accrued interest.

  In the event of split ratings, the applicable rating should be determined
                 according to the method used in the standardised approach for credit
                 risk. Local rating scales (rather than international ratings) of a
                 supervisor-approved ECAI that meet the eligibility criteria outlined in
                 CRE21.2 can be recognised if corporate debt securities or covered
                 bonds are held by a bank for local currency liquidity needs arising from
                 its operations in that local jurisdiction. This also applies to Level 2B
                 assets.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       While corporate debt securities with a rating between A+ and BBB–
                  whose maximum decline of price does not exceed 20% may be
                  included in Level 2B according to LCR30.45(2), and corporate debt
                  securities with a rating of at least AA– whose maximum decline of
                  price does not exceed 10% may be included in Level 2A according to
                  LCR30.43(2), there is no explicit assignment of corporate debt securities
                  with a rating of at least AA– whose maximum decline of price is
                  between 10 and 20%?

                  Corporate debt securities with a rating of at least AA– whose
                  maximum decline of price or increase in haircuts over a 30-day period
                  during a relevant period of significant liquidity stress is between 10 and
                  20% may count towards Level 2B assets provided that they meet all
                  other requirements stated in LCR30.45(2).



Level 2B assets
30.44 Certain additional assets (Level 2B assets) may be included in Level 2 at the
      discretion of national authorities. In choosing to include these assets in Level 2
      for the purpose of the LCR, supervisors must ensure that such assets fully comply
      with the qualifying criteria. Supervisors should also ensure that banks have
      appropriate systems and measures to monitor and control the potential risks (eg
      credit and market risks) that banks could be exposed to in holding these assets.

30.45 A larger haircut is applied to the current market value of each Level 2B asset held
      in the stock of HQLA. Level 2B assets are limited to the following:


     (1) Residential mortgage backed securities (RMBS) that satisfy all of the
         following conditions may be included in Level 2B, subject to a 25% haircut:

         (a) not issued by, and the underlying assets have not been originated by,
             the bank itself or any of its affiliated entities;

         (b) have a long-term credit rating from a recognised ECAI of AA or higher,
             or in the absence of a long-term rating, a short-term rating equivalent
             in quality to the long-term rating;

         (c)   traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets characterised by a
               low level of concentration;

         (d) have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in the markets
             (through repo or outright sale) even during stressed market conditions,
             ie a maximum decline of price not exceeding 20% or increase in haircut

               over a 30-day period not exceeding 20 percentage points during a
               relevant period of significant liquidity stress;

         (e) the underlying asset pools are restricted to residential mortgages and
             cannot contain structured products;

         (f)   the underlying mortgages are “full recourse” loans (ie in the case of
               foreclosure the mortgage owner remains liable for any shortfall in sales
               proceeds from the property) and have a maximum loan-to-value ratio
               (LTV) of 80% on average at issuance; and

         (g) the securitisations are subject to “risk retention” regulations which
             require issuers to retain an interest in the assets they securitise.

     (2) Corporate debt securities (including commercial paper) that satisfy all of
         the following conditions may be included in Level 2B, subject to a 50%
         haircut:

         (a) not issued by a financial institution or any of its affiliated entities;

         (b) either:

               (i)   have a long-term credit rating from a recognised ECAI of at least
                     BBB- or in the absence of a long-term rating, a short-term rating
                     equivalent in quality to the long-term rating; or

               (ii) do not have a credit assessment by a recognised ECAI but are
                    internally rated as having a PD corresponding to a credit rating of
                    at least BBB-;


         (c)   traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets characterised by a
               low level of concentration; and

         (d) have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in the markets
             (through repo or outright sale) even during stressed market conditions,
             ie a maximum decline of price not exceeding 20% or increase in haircut
             over a 30-day period not exceeding 20 percentage points during a
             relevant period of significant liquidity stress.


     (3) Common equity shares that satisfy all of the following conditions may be
         included in Level 2B, subject to a 50% haircut:

          (a) not issued by a financial institution or any of its affiliated entities;

          (b) exchange-traded and centrally cleared;

          (c)   a constituent of major stock index (or indices) of the home jurisdiction
                where the liquidity risk is taken, as decided by the supervisor in the
                jurisdiction where the index is located;

          (d) denominated in the domestic currency of a bank’s home jurisdiction or
              in the currency of the jurisdiction where a bank’s liquidity risk is taken;

          (e) traded in large, deep and active repo or cash markets characterised by a
              low level of concentration; and

          (f)   have a proven record as a reliable source of liquidity in the markets
                (through repo or outright sale) even during stressed market conditions,



                ie a maximum decline of price not exceeding 40% or increase in haircut
                over a 30-day period not exceeding 40 percentage points during a
                relevant period of significant liquidity stress.


 Corporate debt securities (including commercial paper) in this respect
                  include only plain-vanilla assets whose valuation is readily available
                  based on standard methods and does not depend on private
                  knowledge, ie these do not include complex structured products or
                  subordinated debt.


     FAQ
     FAQ1         Does the maximum LTV criterion of 80% mean that the average pool
                  LTV is to be less than 80% or that each loan has to have less than 80%
                  LTV?

                  The LTV requirement in LCR30.45(1) refers to the weighted average (by
                  loan balance) LTV of the portfolio of underlying mortgages, not to any
                  individual mortgage, ie mortgages that have an LTV greater than 80%
                  are not excluded per se.

     FAQ2


               Does “at issuance” in LCR30.45(1) refer to the issuance of the RMBS or
               of the underlying mortgages?

               “At issuance” refers to the time when the RMBS are issued, ie the
               average LTV of the underlying mortgages at the time of the issuance of
               the RMBS must not be higher than 80%.

     FAQ3      While corporate debt securities rated BBB+ to BBB– may be included in
               Level 2B according to LCR30.45(2), there is no explicit assignment of
               sovereign debt securities with such a rating. How should those
               securities be treated?

               Sovereign and central bank debt securities rated BBB+ to BBB– that are
               not included in the definition of Level 1 assets according to LCR30.41
               (4) or LCR30.41(5) may be included in the definition of Level 2B assets
               with a 50% haircut within the 15% cap for all Level 2B assets.

     FAQ4      Securities representing claims on PSEs are not part of the definition of
               Level 2B assets in LCR30.45. Can such securities from PSEs whose risk
               weight under the standardised approach for credit risk is higher than
               20%, but which have a rating of at least BBB– and whose maximum
               price decline does not exceed 20% still be classified as Level 2B?

               Yes, PSE debt securities with a rating of at least BBB– whose maximum
               decline of price or increase in haircuts over a 30-day period during a
               relevant period of significant liquidity stress does not exceed 20% may
               count towards Level 2B assets provided that they meet all other
               requirements stated in LCR30.45(2).

     FAQ5      LCR30.45(3)(c) refers to a “major stock index in the home jurisdiction or
               where the liquidity risk is taken, as decided by the supervisor in the
               jurisdiction where the index is located”. It is not clear what is meant by
               “taking a risk”.

               Equities that are a constituent of a major stock index can only be
               assigned to the stock of HQLA if the stock index is located within the
               home jurisdiction of the bank or if the bank has liquidity risk exposure
               through a branch or other legal entity in that jurisdiction.

     FAQ6      When considering which common equity shares might satisfy the
               criteria for Level 2B assets of a maximum decline of share price not
               exceeding 40% over a “relevant period of significant liquidity stress”,
               we assume that this criterion does not need to be applied for time




                  periods prior to the shares’ inclusion in the major index. Indicators of
                  volatility prior to the shares’ inclusion in the index will not be
                  representative of current or future pricing.

                  The criterion must be satisfied by all equity shares that enter the stock
                  of HQLA. A consistent stressed period should be used for justification
                  and whether the share was part of the index during that timeframe is
                  not relevant.

       FAQ7       LCR30.45(3)(f) only allows equity securities that have not experienced a
                  40% drop in price during a 30-day period. Most stocks with a long
                  history have dropped more than 40% (eg via crashes in 1999, 2002,
                  2009). In our study we saw that only young companies with a short
                  history on the market qualify for this requirement. Hence, young risky
                  stocks can be included but not the more stable companies/stocks. Was
                  this really the intention?

                  Determining the appropriate stress period for meeting market
                  performance requirements is a matter of national discretion. However,
                  it is not the intention of the Basel Committee to exclude all established
                  companies and include only young companies.

       FAQ8       Equities eligible as Level 2B HQLA must be a constituent of a major
                  stock index as decided by the supervisor in the jurisdiction where the
                  index is located. Could confirmation be given on a centralised basis by
                  the Basel Committee as to which indices are deemed to be “major”
                  ones?

                  The issue is the responsibility of national authorities. The Basel
                  Committee will not provide such a list.


30.46 In addition, supervisors may choose to include within Level 2B assets the
      undrawn value of any contractual committed liquidity facility (CLF) provided by a
      central bank, where this has not already been included in HQLA in accordance
      with LCR31.12. When including such facilities within Level 2B assets, the following
      conditions apply:

     (1) The facility (termed a restricted-use committed liquidity facility, or RCLF)
         must, in normal times, be subject to a commitment fee on the total (drawn
         and undrawn) facility amount that is at least the greater of:

         (a) 75 basis points per annum; or

         (b) at least 25 basis points per annum above the difference in yield on the
             assets used to secure the RCLF and the yield on a representative
             portfolio of HQLA after adjusting for any material differences in credit
             risk.

     (2) In periods of market-wide stress the commitment fee on the RCLF (drawn
         and undrawn amount) may be reduced, but remain subject to the minimum
         requirements applicable to CLFs used by countries with insufficient HQLA
         (set out in LCR31).

     (3) The RCLF must be supported by unencumbered collateral of a type specified
         by the central bank. The collateral must be held in a form which supports
         immediate transfer to the central bank should the facility need to be drawn
         and sufficient (post-haircut) to cover the total size of the facility. Collateral
         used to support a RCLF cannot simultaneously be used as part of HQLA.

     (4) Conditional on the bank being assessed to be solvent, the RCLF contract
         must otherwise be irrevocable prior to maturity and involve no other ex post
         credit decision by the central bank. The commitment period must exceed the
         30-day stress period stipulated by the LCR framework.

     (5) Central banks that offer RCLFs to banks in their jurisdiction should disclose
         their intention to do so and, to the extent that facilities are not available to
         all banks in the jurisdiction, to which class(es) of banks they may be offered.
         National authorities should also disclose whether RCLFs (offered
         domestically, or by central banks in other jurisdictions) are able to be
         included within the HQLA of banks within their jurisdiction. National
         authorities should disclose when they consider there to be a market-wide
         stress that justifies an easing of the RCLF terms.


Treatment of Shari’ah compliant banks
30.47 Shari’ah compliant banks face a religious prohibition on holding certain types of
      assets, such as interest-bearing debt securities. Even in jurisdictions that have a
      sufficient supply of HQLA, an insurmountable impediment to the ability of Shari’
      ah compliant banks to meet the LCR requirement may still exist. In such cases,
      national supervisors in jurisdictions in which Shari’ah compliant banks operate
      have the discretion to define Shari’ah compliant financial products (such as
      Sukuk) as alternative HQLA applicable to such banks only, subject to such
      conditions or haircuts that the supervisors may require. The intention of this
      treatment is not to allow Shari’ah compliant banks to hold fewer HQLA. The
      minimum LCR standard, calculated based on alternative HQLA (post-haircut)
      recognised as HQLA for these banks, should not be lower than the minimum LCR
      standard applicable to other banks in the jurisdiction concerned. National
      supervisors applying such treatment for Shari’ah compliant banks should comply
      with supervisory monitoring and disclosure obligations similar to those set out in
      LCR31.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       According to LCR30.47, “national supervisors in jurisdictions which
                  Shari’ah compliant banks operate have the discretion to define Shari’
                  ah compliant financial products (such as Sukuk) as alternative HQLA
                  applicable to such banks only”. What about Shari’ah-compliant
                  financial products that do not need alternative treatment, ie that meet
                  the operational requirements as set out in LCR30.13 to LCR30.28 as
                  well as the relevant conditions of the corresponding asset type as set
                  out in LCR30.29 to LCR30.31, LCR30.33, LCR30.34, LCR30.40 to LCR30.
                  45 and generally feature the characteristics as set out in LCR30.2 to
                  LCR30.12, can non-Shari’ah compliant banks hold these as HQLA?

                  Yes. The limitation to Shari’ah compliant banks applies only to Shari’ah
                  compliant financial products that would not otherwise meet HQLA
                  requirements. For Shari’ah-compliant financial products that meet the
                  requirements for recognition as HQLA as set out above, any bank can
                  count them towards its stock of HQLA. Competent authorities may
                  further specify the HQLA eligibility of Shari’ah compliant financial
                  products in their jurisdictions.


                                 LCR31
                                 Alternative liquidity
                                 approaches
                                 This chapter describes alternative liquidity
                                 approaches available in jurisdictions with an
                                 insufficient supply of Level 1 high-quality liquid
                                 assets in their domestic currency.


                                Introduction
31.1   Some jurisdictions may have an insufficient supply of Level 1 high-quality liquid
       assets (HQLA), or both Level 1 and Level 2 HQLA, in their domestic currency to
       meet the aggregate demand of banks with significant exposures in this currency.
       To address this situation, the Basel Committee has developed alternative
       treatments for holdings in the stock of HQLA, which are expected to apply to a
       limited number of currencies and jurisdictions.


Insufficiency in Level 2 assets alone does not qualify for the alternative
                   treatment.

For member states of a monetary union with a common currency, that
                   common currency is considered the “domestic currency”.


31.2   Eligibility for such alternative treatment will be judged on the basis of the
       principles and qualifying criteria set out in LCR31.20 and explained further in
       LCR31.24 to LCR31.61.

31.3   There are three alternative treatments available:

       (1) contractual committed liquidity facilities from the relevant central bank, for a
           fee (Option 1);

       (2) foreign currency HQLA to cover domestic liquidity needs (Option 2); and

       (3) additional use of Level 2 assets with a higher haircut (Option 3).


General rules governing the use of alternative liquidity approaches
31.4   Jurisdictions are not limited to one option. However, the usage of any of the
       above options must be constrained by a limit specified by supervisors in
       jurisdictions whose currency is eligible for the alternative treatment. The limit
       should be expressed in terms of the maximum amount of HQLA associated with
       the use of the options (whether individually or in combination) that a bank is
       allowed to include in its Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR), as a percentage of the
       total amount of HQLA the bank is required to hold in the currency concerned.
       HQLA associated with the options refer to:



       (1) in the case of Option 1, the amount of committed liquidity facilities granted
           by the relevant central bank, for a fee;

       (2) in the case of Option 2, the amount of foreign currency HQLA used to cover
           the shortfall of HQLA in the domestic currency; and

       (3) in the case of Option 3, the amount of Level 2 assets held (including those
           within the 40% cap).

 The required amount of HQLA in the domestic currency includes any
                   regulatory buffer (ie above the 100% LCR standard) that the supervisor
                   may reasonably impose on the bank concerned based on its liquidity
                   risk profile.


31.5   If, for example, the maximum level of usage of the options is set at 80%, it means
       that a bank adopting the options, either individually or in combination, would
       only be allowed to include HQLA associated with the options (after applying any
       relevant haircut) up to 80% of the required amount of HQLA in the relevant
       currency. Thus, at least 20% of the HQLA requirement would need to be met by
       Level 1 assets in the relevant currency. The maximum usage of the options is
       constrained by the bank’s actual shortfall of HQLA in the currency concerned.

For example, if a bank has used Option 1 and Option 3 to the extent
                   that it has been granted an Option 1 facility of 10%, and held Level 2
                   assets of 55% after haircut (both in terms of the required amount of
                   HQLA in the domestic currency), the HQLA associated with the use of
                   these two options amount to 65% (ie 10%+55%), which is still within
                   the 80% level. The total amount of alternative HQLA used is 25% (ie
                   10% + 15%; additional Level 2A assets used).


31.6   The maximum level of usage should be consistent with the projected size of the
       HQLA shortfall faced by banks subject to the LCR in the currency concerned,
       taking into account all relevant factors that may affect the size of the shortfall
       over time. The supervisor should explain how this level is derived, and justify why
       this is supported by insufficient HQLA in the banking system.


31.7




       A bank must keep its supervisor informed of its usage of the options so as to
       enable the supervisor to manage the aggregate usage of the options in the
       jurisdiction and to monitor, where necessary, that banks using such options
       observe the relevant supervisory requirements.

31.8   While bank-by-bank approval by the supervisor is not required for use of the
       alternative liquidity approaches, individual supervisors may still consider
       providing specific approval for banks to use the options should this be warranted
       based on their jurisdiction-specific circumstances. For example, use of Option 1
       will typically require central bank approval of the committed facility.

31.9   In general, a bank that needs to use the options should not be allowed to use
       such options above the level required to meet its LCR (including any reasonable
       buffer above the 100% standard that may be imposed by the supervisor),
       however supervisors may consider whether this should be accommodated under
       certain circumstances. Banks may wish to do so for a number of reasons. For
       example, they may want to have an additional liquidity facility in anticipation of
       tight market conditions. Supervisors should have a process (eg through periodic
       reviews) for ensuring that the alternative HQLA held by banks are not excessive
       compared with their actual need. In addition, banks should not intentionally
       replace their stock of Level 1 or Level 2 assets with ineligible assets to create a
       larger liquidity shortfall for economic reasons or otherwise.

31.10 A bank must demonstrate that it has taken reasonable steps to use Level 1 and
      Level 2 assets and reduce the amount of liquidity risk (as measured by reducing
      net cash outflows in the LCR) to improve its LCR, before applying an alternative
      treatment. Holding an HQLA portfolio is not the only way to mitigate a bank’s
      liquidity risk. For example, a bank could improve the matching of its assets and
      liabilities, attract stable funding sources, or reduce its longer-term assets. Banks
      should not treat the use of the options simply as an economic choice that
      maximises the profits of the bank through the selection of alternative HQLA
      based primarily on yield considerations. The liquidity characteristics of an
      alternative HQLA portfolio should be considered to be more important than its
      net yield.


31.11 In order to ensure that banks’ usage of the options is not out of line with the
      availability of Level 1 assets within the jurisdiction, supervisors may set a
      minimum amount of Level 1 assets to be held by each bank that is consistent
      with the availability of Level 1 assets in the market. A bank must then ensure that
      it is able to hold and maintain Level 1 assets not less than the minimum amount
      when applying the options.


Option 1 – Contractual committed liquidity facilities from the relevant
central bank, for a fee
31.12 Under Option 1, banks may access contractual committed liquidity facilities
      provided by the relevant central bank (ie relevant given the currency in question)
      for a fee. These committed liquidity facilities should be distinct and separate from
      regular central bank standing arrangements, as these committed liquidity
      facilities must meet certain criteria. In particular, these facilities must be
      established contractual arrangements between the central bank and the
      commercial bank with a maturity date which, at a minimum, falls outside the 30-
      day LCR window. Further, the contract must be irrevocable prior to maturity and
      must not involve an ex post credit decision by the central bank. Such facilities
      must also incur a fee for the facility which is charged regardless of the amount, if
      any, drawn down against that facility; and the fee must be set so that both banks
      that claim the facility to meet the LCR and banks that do not have similar financial
      incentives to reduce their exposure to liquidity risk. That is, the fee should be set
      so that the net yield on the assets used to secure the facility should not be higher
      than the net yield on a representative portfolio of Level 1 and Level 2 assets, after
      adjusting for any material differences in credit risk. A jurisdiction seeking to adopt
      Option 1 should justify that the fee is suitably set in a manner as prescribed in
      this paragraph.


Option 2 – Foreign currency HQLA to cover domestic liquidity needs
31.13 Under Option 2, supervisors may permit banks that evidence a shortfall of HQLA
      in the domestic currency (ie insufficient domestic currency HQLA relative to
      domestic currency liquidity risk) to hold HQLA in a currency that does not match
      the currency of the associated liquidity risk. However, the resulting currency
      mismatch positions must be justifiable and controlled within limits agreed by
      their supervisors. Supervisors should restrict such positions within levels
      consistent with the bank’s foreign exchange risk management capacity and needs
      and ensure that such positions relate to currencies that are freely and reliably
      convertible, are effectively managed by the bank, and would not pose undue risk
      to its financial strength. In managing those positions, the bank should take into
      account the risk that its ability to swap currencies and its access to the relevant
      foreign exchange markets may erode rapidly under stressed conditions. It should
      also take into account that sudden, adverse exchange rate movements could
      sharply widen existing mismatch positions and alter the effectiveness of any
      foreign exchange hedges in place.

31.14 To account for foreign exchange risk associated with foreign currency HQLA used
      to cover liquidity needs in the domestic currency, such liquid assets must be
      subject to a minimum haircut of 8% for major currencies that are active in global
      foreign exchange markets. For other currencies, jurisdictions should increase the
      haircut to an appropriate level on the basis of historical (monthly) exchange rate
      volatilities between the currency pair over an extended period of time. If the
      domestic currency is formally pegged to another currency under an effective
      mechanism, the haircut for the pegged currency may be lowered to a level that
      reflects the limited exchange rate risk under the peg arrangement. To qualify for
      this treatment, the jurisdiction concerned should demonstrate the effectiveness
      of its currency peg mechanism and assess the long-term prospect of keeping the
      peg.


 These refer to currencies that exhibit significant and active market
                   turnover in the global foreign currency market (eg the average market
                   turnover of the currency as a percentage of the global foreign currency
                   market turnover over a ten-year period is not lower than 10%).

As an illustration, the exchange rate volatility data used for deriving
                   the foreign exchange haircut may be based on the 30-day moving
                   foreign exchange price volatility data (mean + 3 standard deviations)
                   of the currency pair over a ten-year period, adjusted to align with the
                   30-day time horizon of the LCR.




31.15 Haircuts for foreign currency HQLA used under Option 2 must apply to HQLA in
      excess of a threshold specified by supervisors which must not be greater than
      25%. This is to accommodate a certain level of currency mismatch that may
      commonly exist among banks in their ordinary course of business.


The threshold for applying the haircut under Option 2 refers to the
                   amount of foreign currency HQLA used to cover liquidity needs in the
                   domestic currency as a percentage of total net cash outflows in the
                   domestic currency. Hence under a threshold of 25%, a bank using
                   Option 2 must apply the haircut to that portion of foreign currency
                   HQLA in excess of 25% that are used to cover liquidity needs in the
                   domestic currency.


31.16 A bank using Option 2 must demonstrate that its foreign exchange risk
      management system is able to measure, monitor and control the foreign
      exchange risk resulting from the currency-mismatched HQLA positions. In
      addition, the bank must show that it can reasonably convert the currency-
      mismatched HQLA to liquidity in the domestic currency when required,
      particularly in a stress scenario. To mitigate the risk that excessive currency
      mismatch may interfere with the objectives of the framework, the bank supervisor
      should only allow banks that are able to measure, monitor and control the
      foreign exchange risk arising from the currency mismatched HQLA positions to
      use this option. As the HQLA that are eligible under Option 2 can be
      denominated in different foreign currencies, banks must assess the convertibility
      of those foreign currencies in a stress scenario. As participants in the foreign
      exchange market, they are in the best position to assess the depth of the foreign
      exchange swap or spot market for converting those assets to the required
      liquidity in the domestic currency in times of stress. The supervisor should also
      restrict the currencies of the assets that are eligible under Option 2 to those that
      have been historically proven to be convertible into the domestic currency in
      times of stress.


Option 3 – Additional use of Level 2 assets with a higher haircut
31.17 This option addresses currencies for which there are insufficient Level 1 assets, as
      determined by reference to the qualifying principles and criteria, but where there
      are sufficient Level 2A assets. Under this option, supervisors may permit banks
      that evidence a shortfall of HQLA in the domestic currency (ie relative to
      domestic currency liquidity risk) to hold additional Level 2A assets in the stock of
      HQLA. These additional Level 2A assets must be subject to a minimum haircut of
      20%, ie 5% higher than the 15% haircut applicable to Level 2A assets that are
      included in the 40% cap. The higher haircut should cover any additional price and
      market liquidity risks arising from increased holdings of Level 2A assets beyond
      the 40% cap and provide a disincentive for banks to use this option based on
      yield considerations. Supervisors must conduct an analysis to assess whether the
      additional haircut is sufficient for Level 2A assets in their markets, and should
      increase the haircut if this is warranted to achieve the purpose for which it is
      intended. Supervisors should explain and justify the outcome of the analysis
      (including the level of increase in the haircut, if applicable). Any Level 2B assets
      held by the bank must remain subject to the cap of 15%, regardless of the
      amount of other Level 2 assets held.
 Supervisors should seek to avoid a situation where the cost of holding a
                   portfolio that benefits from this option is lower than the cost of holding
                   a theoretical compliant portfolio of Level 1 and Level 2 assets, after
                   adjusting for any material differences in credit risk.


31.18 A bank using Option 3 must be able to manage the price risk associated with the
      additional Level 2A assets. As the quality of Level 2A assets is lower than that for
      Level 1 assets, increasing its composition would increase the price risk and hence
      the volatility of the bank’s stock of HQLA. To mitigate the uncertainty of
      performance of this option, banks must demonstrate that the values of the assets
      under stress are sufficient. At a minimum, they must be able to conduct stress
      tests to ascertain that the value of its stock of HQLA remains sufficient to support
      its LCR during a market-wide stress event. The bank should take a higher haircut
      (ie higher than the supervisor-imposed Option 3 haircut) on the value of the
      Level 2A assets if the stress test results suggest that the minimum haircut
      imposed by supervisors would be insufficient to cover the assets’ price and
      market liquidity risks.



31.19 A bank using Option 3 must show that it can reasonably liquidate the additional
      Level 2A assets in a stress scenario. With additional reliance on Level 2A assets, it
      is essential to ensure that the market for these assets has sufficient depth. This

       standard may be implemented in several ways, but should be more severe than
       the requirements associated with Level 2 assets within the 40% cap, because
       increased reliance on Level 2A assets would increase concentration risk on an
       aggregate level, thus affecting market liquidity. The supervisor may:

       (1) require that Level 2A assets that exceed the 40% cap meet higher qualifying
           criteria (eg minimum credit rating of AA+ or AA instead of AA-, central bank
           eligible);

       (2) set a limit on the minimum issue size of the Level 2A assets that qualify for
           use under this option;

       (3) set a limit on the bank’s maximum holding as a percentage of the issue size
           of the qualifying Level 2A asset;

       (4) set a limit on the maximum bid-ask spread, minimum volume, or minimum
           turnover of the qualifying Level 2A asset; and

       (5) any other criteria appropriate for the jurisdiction.


Principles for assessing eligibility for alternative liquidity approaches
31.20 All of the following principles must be satisfied in order for a jurisdiction to
      qualify for alternative treatment.

     (1) To use the alternative treatment under the LCR, a jurisdiction must
         demonstrate and justify that insufficient HQLA denominated in the domestic
         currency exists, taking into account all relevant factors affecting the supply
         of, and demand for, such HQLA (Principle 1).

         (a) The supply of HQLA in the domestic currency of the jurisdiction must be
             insufficient, in terms of Level 1 assets only or both Level 1 and Level 2
             assets, to meet the aggregate demand for such assets from banks
             operating in that currency. The jurisdiction must be able to provide
             adequate information (quantitative and otherwise) to demonstrate this
             aggregate shortfall.

         (b) The determination of insufficient HQLA by the jurisdiction under LCR31.
             20(1)(a) should address all major factors relevant to the issue. These
             include, but are not limited to, the expected supply of HQLA in the
             medium term (eg three to five years), the extent to which the banking
             sector can and should run less liquidity risk, and the competing demand

               from banks and non-bank investors for holding HQLA for similar or
               other purposes.

         (c)   Insufficient HQLA faced by the jurisdiction must be caused by structural,
               policy and other constraints that cannot be resolved within the medium
               term (eg three to five years). Such constraints may relate to the fiscal or
               budget policies of the jurisdiction, the infrastructural development of its
               capital markets, the structure of its monetary system and operations (eg
               the currency board arrangements for jurisdictions with pegged
               exchange rates), or other jurisdiction-specific factors leading to the
               shortage or imbalance in the supply of HQLA available to the banking
               sector.



     (2) A jurisdiction that intends to adopt one or more of the options for
         alternative treatment must be capable of limiting the uncertainty of
         performance, or mitigating the risks of non-performance, of the option(s)
         concerned (Principle 2).

         (a) For Option 1 (ie the provision of contractual committed liquidity
             facilities from the relevant central bank for a fee), the jurisdiction must
             have the economic strength to support the committed liquidity facilities
             granted by its central bank. To ensure this, the jurisdiction should have a
             process in place to control the aggregate amount of such facilities to
             within a level that can be measured and managed.




         (b) For Option 2 (ie use of foreign currency HQLA to cover domestic
             currency liquidity needs), the jurisdiction must have a mechanism in
             place to control the foreign exchange risk of its banks’ foreign currency
             HQLA holdings.

         (c)   For Option 3 (ie use of Level 2A assets beyond the 40% cap with a
               higher haircut), the jurisdiction must only allow Level 2 assets that are of
               a quality (credit and liquidity) comparable to that for Level 1 assets in its
               currency to be used under this option. The jurisdiction should be able to
               provide quantitative and qualitative evidence to substantiate this
               requirement.




       (3) A jurisdiction that intends to adopt one or more of the options for
           alternative treatment must be committed to observing all of the obligations
           set out below (Principle 3).

            (a) The jurisdiction must maintain a supervisory monitoring system to
                ensure that its banks comply with the rules and requirements relevant
                to their usage of the options, including any associated haircuts, limits or
                restrictions.

            (b) The jurisdiction must document and update its approach to adopting an
                alternative treatment, and make the approach explicit and transparent
                to other national supervisors. The approach should address how it
                complies with the applicable criteria, limits and obligations set out in
                the qualifying principles, including the determination of insufficient
                HQLA and other key aspects of its framework for alternative treatment.

            (c)   The jurisdiction must review periodically the determination of
                  insufficient HQLA at intervals not exceeding five years, and disclose the

                  results of review and any consequential changes to other national
                  supervisors and stakeholders.

            (d) The jurisdiction must permit an independent peer review of its
                framework for alternative treatment to be conducted as part of the
                Basel Committee’s work programme and address the comments made.

31.21 The eligibility for a jurisdiction to adopt an alternative liquidity approach
      treatment should be based on a fully implemented LCR standard (ie 100%
      requirement).

31.22 The principles in LCR31.20 may not, in all cases, be able to capture specific
      circumstances or unique factors affecting individual jurisdictions having
      insufficient HQLA. Hence, a jurisdiction may provide additional information or
      explain other factors that are relevant to its compliance with the Principles, even
      though such information or factors may not be specified in the Principles.

31.23 Where a jurisdiction uses estimations or projections to support its case to use
      alternative liquidity approaches, the rationale and basis for those estimations or
      projections should be clearly set out. In order to support its case and facilitate
      independent peer review, the jurisdiction should provide information, to the
      extent possible, covering a long enough time series (eg three to five years
      depending on data availability).


Guidance on meeting Principle 1 – insufficiency of HQLA
31.24 In order to qualify for alternative treatment, the jurisdiction must be able to
      demonstrate that there is an HQLA shortfall in the domestic currency as it relates
      to the needs in that currency. The jurisdiction must demonstrate this with regard
      to the three criteria set out above.

31.25 LCR31.20(1)(a) requires the jurisdiction to provide sufficient information to
      demonstrate the insufficient HQLA in its domestic currency. This insufficiency
      must principally reflect a shortage in Level 1 assets, although Level 2 assets may
      also be insufficient in some jurisdictions.

31.26 To illustrate that a currency does not have sufficient HQLA, the jurisdiction must
      provide all relevant information and data that have a bearing on the size of the
      HQLA shortfall faced by banks operating in that currency that are subject to LCR
      requirements (“LCR banks”). These should, to the extent practicable, include the
      following information.

       (1) The current and projected stock of HQLA denominated in its currency,
           including:

           (a) the supply of Level 1 and Level 2 assets broken down by asset classes;

           (b) the amounts outstanding for the last three to five years;

           (c)   the projected amounts for the next three to five years; and

           (d) any other information in support of its stock and projection of HQLA,
               including, should the jurisdiction feel that the true nature of the supply
               of HQLA cannot be simply reflected by the numbers provided, further
               information to explain sufficiently the case.



     (2) The jurisdiction should provide a detailed analysis of the nature of the
         market for the above assets. Information relating to the market liquidity of
         the assets would be of particular importance. The jurisdiction should present
         its views on the liquidity of the HQLA based on the information presented.
         The following details should be provided:

         (a) for the primary market for the above assets:

               (i)    the channel and method of issuance;

               (ii)   the issuers;

               (iii) the past issue tenor, denomination and issue size for the last three
                     to five years; and

               (iv) the projected issue tenor, denomination and issue size for the next
                    three to five years;

         (b) for the secondary market for the above assets:

               (i)    the trading size and activity;

               (ii)   types of market participants; and

               (iii) the size and activity of its repo market; and

         (c)   where possible, the jurisdiction should provide an estimate of the
               amount of the above assets (Level 1 and Level 2) required to be in free
               circulation for them to remain genuinely liquid, as well as any
               justification for these figures.



     (3) With regard to demand for HQLA by LCR banks, the jurisdiction should
         provide:

         (a) the number of LCR banks under its purview;

         (b) the current demand (ie net 30-day cash outflows) for HQLA by these
             LCR banks for meeting the LCR or other requirements (eg collateral for
             intraday repo);

         (c)   the projected demand for the next three to five years based on banks’
               business growth and strategy;

         (d) an estimate of the percentage of total HQLA already in the hands of
             banks; and

         (e) commentaries on cash flow projections where appropriate to improve
             their persuasiveness. The projections should take into account observed
               behavioural changes of the LCR banks and any other factors that may
               result in a reduction of their 30-day cash outflows.

     (4) The jurisdiction may provide information on the demand for Level 1 and
         Level 2 assets by the other HQLA holders in support of its application. These
         entities are not subject to the LCR but will likely take up, or hold on to, a part
         of the outstanding stock of HQLA. Such entities include: banks, branches of
         banks and other deposit-taking institutions which conduct bank-like activity
         (such as building societies and credit unions) in the jurisdiction but are not
         subject to the LCR: other financial institutions which are normally subject to
         prudential supervision, such as investment or securities firms, insurance or
         reinsurance companies, pension / superannuation funds, mortgage funds,
         and money market funds; and other significant investors which have
         demonstrated a track record of strategic ”buy and hold” purchases which can
         be presumed to be price-insensitive. This would include foreign sovereigns,
         foreign central banks and foreign sovereign / quasi-sovereign funds, but not
         hedge funds or other private investment management vehicles. Historical
         demand for such assets by these holders is not sufficient. The alternate
         holders of HQLA must at least exhibit the following qualities:

         (a) price-inelastic: the holders of HQLA are unlikely to switch to alternate
             assets unless there is a significant change in the price of these assets;
             and

         (b) proven to be stable: the demand for HQLA by the holders should
             remain stable over the next three years as they require these assets to
             meet specific purposes, such as asset-liability matching or other
             regulatory requirements.

 To avoid doubt, if the jurisdiction is a member of a monetary union
                   operating under a single currency, debt or other assets issued in other
                   members of the union in that currency is considered available for all
                   jurisdictions in that union. Hence, the jurisdiction should take into
                   account the availability of such assets which qualify as HQLA in its
                   analysis.


31.27 The jurisdiction should be able to come up with a reasonable estimate of the
      HQLA shortfall faced by its LCR banks (current and over the next three to five
      years), based on credible information. In deriving the HQLA shortfall, the
      jurisdiction should first compare:

       (1) the total outstanding stock of its HQLA in domestic currency; with

       (2) the total liquidity needs of its LCR banks in domestic currency.

31.28 The jurisdiction should then explain the method of deriving the HQLA shortfall,
      taking into account all relevant factors, including those set out in LCR31.20(1)(b),
      which may affect the size of the shortfall. A detailed analysis of the calculations
      should be provided (eg in the form of a template), explaining any adjustments to
      supply and demand and justifications for such adjustments. The jurisdiction
      should demonstrate that the method of defining insufficiency is appropriate for
      its circumstances, and that it can reflect the HQLA shortfall faced by LCR banks in
      the currency.

 For HQLA that are subject to caps or haircuts (eg Level 2 assets), the
                   effects of such constraints should be accounted for.


31.29 LCR31.20(1)(b) builds on the information provided by the jurisdiction in LCR31.7
      to LCR31.10 and requires the jurisdiction to further explain the manner in which
      insufficient HQLA is determined, by listing all major factors that affect the HQLA
      shortfall faced by its LCR banks under LCR31.20(1)(a). There should be a
      commentary for each of the factors, explaining why the factor is relevant, the
      impact of the factor on the HQLA shortfall, and how such impact is incorporated
      into the analysis of insufficient HQLA. The jurisdiction should be able to
      demonstrate that it has adequately considered all relevant factors, including
      those that may improve the HQLA shortfall, so as to ascertain that the
      insufficiency issue is fairly stated.



31.30
        On the supply of HQLA, there should be due consideration of the extent to which
        insufficient HQLA may be alleviated by estimated medium term supply of such
        assets, as well as the factors restricting the availability of HQLA to LCR banks. In
        the case of government debt, relevant information on availability can be
        reflected, for example, from the size and nature of other users of government
        debt in the jurisdiction; holdings of government debt which seldom appear in the
        traded markets; and the amount of government debt in free circulation for the
        assets to remain truly liquid.

31.31 On the demand of HQLA, there should be due consideration of the potential
      liquidity needs of the banking sector, taking into account the scope for banks to
      reduce their liquidity risk (and hence their demand for HQLA) and the extent to
      which banks can satisfy their demand through the repo market (rather than
      through outright purchase of HQLA). Other needs for maintaining HQLA (eg for
      intraday repo purposes) may also increase banks’ demand for such assets.

31.32 The jurisdiction should also include any other factors not mentioned above that
      are relevant to its case.

31.33 LCR31.20(1)(c) should establish that insufficient HQLA is caused by constraints
      that are not temporary in nature. The jurisdiction should provide a list of such
      constraints, explain the nature of the constraints and how the insufficiency issue
      is affected by the constraints, as well as whether there is any prospect of change
      in the constraints (eg measures taken to address the constraints) in the next three
      to five years. To demonstrate the significance of the constraints, the jurisdiction
      should support the analysis with appropriate quantitative information.

31.34 A jurisdiction may have fiscal or budget constraints that limit its ability or need to
      raise debt. To support this, the following information should, at a minimum, be
      provided:

        (1) Fiscal position for the past ten years: Consistent fiscal surpluses (eg at least
            six out of the past ten years or at least two out of the past three years) can
            be an indication that the jurisdiction does not need to raise a significant
            amount of debt. On the contrary, it is unlikely that jurisdictions with
            persistent deficits (eg at least six out of the past ten years) will have a
            shortage in government debt issued.

        (2) Fiscal position as a percentage of gross domestic product (GDP) (ten-year
            average): This is another way of looking at the fiscal position. A positive ten-
            year average will likely suggest that the need for debt issuance is low.
            Similarly, a negative ten-year average will suggest otherwise.


       (3) Issue of government or central bank debt in the past ten years and the
           reasons for such issuance (eg for market operations or managing the yield
           curve). This is to assess the level and consistency of debt issuance.


 Some deficits during economic downturns need to be catered for.
                   Moreover, the recent surplus/deficit situation is relevant for assessment.


31.35 The jurisdiction should also provide the ratio of its government debt to total
      banking assets denominated in domestic currency (for the past three to five
      years) to facilitate trend analysis of the government debt position versus a proxy
      indicator for banking activity (ie total banking assets), as well as comparison of
      the position across jurisdictions (including those that may not have the
      insufficiency issue). While this ratio alone cannot give any conclusive view about
      the insufficiency issue, a relatively low ratio (eg below 20%) may support the case
      if the jurisdiction also performs similarly under other indicators.

31.36 A jurisdiction may have underdeveloped markets that result in limited availability
      of corporate or covered bonds to satisfy market demand. Information to be
      provided may include the causes of this situation, measures that are being taken
      to develop the markets, the expected effect of such measures, and other relevant
      statistics showing the state of the markets.

31.37 There may also be other structural issues affecting the monetary system and
      operations. For example, the currency board arrangements for jurisdictions with
      pegged exchange rates could potentially constrain the issue of central bank debt
      and cause uncertainty or volatility in the availability of such debt to the banking
      sector. The jurisdiction should explain such arrangements and their effects on the
      supply of central bank debt (supported by relevant historical data in the past
      three to five years).


Guidance on meeting Principle 2 – managing performance
31.38 This Principle assesses whether and how the jurisdiction mitigates the risks arising
      from the adoption of any of the options, based on the requirements set out in
      the three criteria mentioned above. The assessment should also include whether
      the jurisdiction’s approach to adopting the options is in line with the alternative
      treatment set out in LCR31.1 to LCR31.19.

31.39 The jurisdiction should explain its policy towards the adoption of the options,
      including which of the options will be used and the estimated (and maximum
       allowable) extent of usage by the banking sector. The jurisdiction should also
       justify the appropriateness of the maximum level of usage of the options to its
       banking system, in accordance with the relevant guidance set out in LCR31.4 to
       LCR31.6.

31.40 A jurisdiction intending to adopt Option 1 must demonstrate that it has the
      economic and financial capacity to support the committed liquidity facilities that
      will be granted to its banks. The jurisdiction should, for example, have a strong
      credit rating (such as AA- or higher) or be able to provide other evidence of
      financial strength and should not be exposed to adverse developments (eg a
      looming crisis) that may heavily impinge on its domestic economy in the near
      term.

This is to enhance market confidence rather than to query the
                   jurisdiction’s ability to honour its commitments.

This is the minimum sovereign rating that qualifies for a 0% risk
                   weight under CRE20.


31.41 The jurisdiction should also demonstrate that it has a process in place to control
      the aggregate facilities granted under Option 1 within a level that is appropriate
      for its local circumstances. For example, the jurisdiction may limit the amount of
      Option 1 commitments to a certain proportion of its GDP and justify why this
      level is suitable for its banking system. The process should address situations
      where the aggregate facilities are approaching or have breached the limit, and
      how the limit interplays with other restrictions for using the options (eg
      maximum level of usage for all options combined).

31.42 To facilitate assessment of compliance with requirements in LCR31.12, the
      jurisdiction should provide all relevant details associated with the extension of
      the committed facility, covering:

       (1) the commitment fee (including the basis on which it is charged, the
           method of calculation and the frequency of re-calculating or varying the
           fee). The jurisdiction should, in particular, demonstrate that the calculation of
           the commitment fee is in line with the conceptual framework set out in
           LCR31.12;

      (2) the types of collateral acceptable to the central bank for securing the facility
          and respective collateral margins or haircuts required;

      (3) the legal terms of the facility (including whether it covers a fixed term or is
          renewable or evergreen, the notice of drawdown, whether the contract is
          irrevocable prior to maturity, and whether there are restrictions on a bank’s
          ability to draw down on the facility);

      (4) the criteria for allowing individual banks to use Option 1;

      (5) disclosure policies (ie whether the level of the commitment fee and the
          amount of committed facilities granted will be disclosed, either by the banks
          or by the central bank); and

      (6) the projected size of committed liquidity facilities that may be granted under
          Option 1 (versus the projected size of total net cash outflows in the domestic
          currency for Option 1 banks) for each of the next three to five years and the
          basis of projection.


LCR31.12 requires the fee to be charged regardless of the amount, if
                  any, drawn down against the facility.

LCR31.12 presents the conceptual framework for setting the fee.

LCR31.12 requires the maturity date to at least fall outside the 30-day
                  LCR window and the contract to be irrevocable prior to maturity.

 LCR31.12 requires the contract not to involve any ex post credit
                  decision by the central bank


31.43 A jurisdiction intending to adopt Option 2 should demonstrate that it has a
      mechanism in place to control the foreign exchange risk arising from banks’
      holdings in foreign currency HQLA under this option. This is because such foreign
      currency asset holdings to cover domestic currency liquidity needs may be
      exposed to the risk of decline in the liquidity value of those foreign currency
      assets should exchange rates move adversely when the assets are converted into
      the domestic currency, especially in times of stress.

31.44 This control mechanism should cover the following elements:



     (1) The jurisdiction should ensure that the use of Option 2 is confined only to
         foreign currencies which provide a reliable source of liquidity in the domestic
         currency in stressed market conditions. In this regard, the jurisdiction should
         specify the currencies and broad types of HQLA denominated in those
         currencies allowable under this option, based on prudent criteria. The
         suitability of the currencies should be reviewed whenever significant changes
         in the external environment warrant a review.

     (2) The jurisdiction should explain why each of the allowable currencies is
         selected, including an analysis of the historical exchange rate volatility, and
         turnover size in the foreign exchange market, of the currency pair (eg based
         on statistics for each of the past three to five years). In case a currency is
         selected for other reasons, the justifications should be clearly stated to
         support its inclusion for Option 2 purposes. The selection of currencies
         should take into account the following aspects:

         (a) the currency should be freely transferable and convertible into the
             domestic currency;

         (b) the currency should be liquid and active in the relevant foreign
             exchange market; the methodology and basis of this assessment should
             be documented;

         (c)   the currency should not exhibit significant historical exchange rate
               volatility against the domestic currency; and

         (d) in the case of a currency which is pegged to the domestic currency,
             there should be a formal mechanism in place for maintaining the peg
             rate; relevant information about the mechanism and past ten-year
             statistics on exchange rate volatility of the currency pair showing the
             effectiveness of the peg arrangement should be documented.




     (3) HQLA in the allowable currencies used for Option 2 purposes must be
         subject to haircuts as prescribed under this framework (ie at least 8% for
         major currencies). The jurisdiction should set a higher haircut for other
         currencies where the exchange rate volatility against the domestic currency
         is much higher, based on a methodology that compares the historical (eg
         monthly) exchange rate volatilities between the currency pair concerned over
         an extended period of time. Where the allowable currency is formally
         pegged to the domestic currency, a lower haircut may be used to reflect
         limited exchange rate risk under the peg arrangement. To qualify for this
         treatment, the jurisdiction should demonstrate the effectiveness of its
         currency peg mechanism and the long-term prospect of keeping the peg.
         Where a threshold for applying the haircut under Option 2 is adopted (see
         LCR31.15), the level of the threshold must not be more than 25%.

     (4) Regular information should be collected from banks in respect of their
         holding of allowable foreign currency HQLA for LCR purposes to enable
         supervisory assessment of the foreign exchange risk associated with banks’
         holdings of such assets, both individually and in aggregate.

     (5) There should be an effective means to control the foreign exchange risk
         assumed by banks. The control mechanism, and how it is to be applied to
         banks, should be elaborated. In particular:

         (a) there should be prescribed criteria for allowing individual banks to use
             Option 2;

         (b) the approach to assessing whether the estimated holdings of foreign
             currency HQLA by individual banks using Option 2 are consistent with
             their foreign exchange risk management capacity (see LCR31.13) should
             be explained; and

         (c)   there should be a system for setting currency mismatch limits to control
               banks’ maximum foreign currency exposures under Option 2.


 For example, clarification may be necessary in cases where only central
                   government debt will be allowed, or Level 1 securities issued by
                   multilateral development banks in some currencies will be allowed.

For example, the central banks of the two currencies concerned may
                   have entered into special foreign exchange swap agreements that
                   facilitate the flow of liquidity between the currencies.

 This is relative to the exchange rate volatilities between the domestic
                   currency and other foreign currencies with which the domestic currency
                   is traded.

 These currencies refer to those that exhibit significant and active
                   market turnover in the global foreign currency market (eg the average
                   market turnover of the currency as a percentage of the global foreign
                   currency market turnover over a ten-year period is not lower than
                   10%).


31.45 With the adoption of Option 3, the increase in holdings of Level 2A assets within
      the banking sector (to substitute for Level 1 assets which are of higher quality but
      in shortage) may give rise to additional price and market liquidity risks, especially
      in times of stress when concentrated asset holdings have to be liquidated. In
      order to mitigate this risk, the jurisdiction intending to adopt Option 3 should
      ensure that only Level 2A assets that are of comparable quality to Level 1 assets
      in the domestic currency are allowed to be used under this option (ie to exceed
      the 40% cap). Level 2B assets must remain subject to the 15% cap. The
      jurisdiction should demonstrate how this can be achieved in its supervisory
      framework, having regard to the following aspects:

       (1) The adoption of higher qualifying standards for additional Level 2A assets:
           apart from fulfilling all the qualifying criteria for Level 2A assets, additional
           requirements should be imposed to ensure the assets provide adequate
           liquidity value. For example, supervisors may require the minimum credit
           rating of these additional Level 2A assets to be AA or AA+ instead of AA-,
           and may impose more stringent qualitative and quantitative criteria. These
           assets may also be required to be central bank eligible.

       (2) The inclusion of a prudent diversification requirement for banks using
           Option 3: banks should be required to diversify holdings of Level 2 assets
           among different issuers and asset classes to the extent feasible in a given
           national market. The jurisdiction should illustrate how this diversification
           requirement is to be applied to banks.


31.46 The jurisdiction should provide statistical evidence to substantiate that Level 2A
      assets (used under Option 3) and Level 1 assets in the domestic currency are
      generally of comparable quality in terms of the maximum decline in price during
      a relevant historical period of significant liquidity stress.

31.47 The jurisdiction should also provide all relevant details associated with the use of
      Option 3, including:

       (1) the standards and criteria for allowing individual banks to use Option 3;

       (2) the system for monitoring banks’ additional Level 2A asset holding under
           Option 3 to ensure that they observe the higher requirements;

       (3) the application of higher haircuts to additional Level 2A assets (see LCR31.17);
           
              and

       (4) the existence of any restriction on the use of Level 2A assets (ie to what
           extent banks will be allowed to hold such assets as a percentage of their
           liquid asset stock).


  Under LCR31.17, a minimum higher haircut of 20% must be applied to
                   additional Level 2A assets used under this option. The jurisdiction must
                   conduct an analysis to assess whether the 20% haircut is sufficient for
                   Level 2A assets in its market, and should increase the haircut to an
                   appropriate level if this is warranted in order to achieve the purpose of
                   the haircut.



Guidance on meeting Principle 3 – supervisory obligations
31.48 This Principle requires a jurisdiction intending to adopt any of the options to
      indicate the jurisdiction’s commitment to observing the obligations relating to
      supervisory monitoring, disclosure, periodic self-assessment, and independent
      peer review of its eligibility for adopting the options, as set out in the criteria
      below. Whether these commitments are fulfilled in practice should be assessed in
      subsequent periodic self-assessments and, where necessary, in subsequent
      independent peer reviews.



31.49 The jurisdiction should demonstrate that it has a clearly documented framework
      for monitoring the usage of the options by its banks as well as their compliance
      with the relevant rules and requirements applicable to them under the
      supervisory framework. In particular, the jurisdiction should have a system to
      ensure that the rules governing banks’ usage of the options are met, and that the
      usage of the options within the banking system are monitored and controlled. To
      achieve this, the framework should be able to address the aspects mentioned
      below.

31.50 The jurisdiction should set out the requirements that banks should meet in order
      to use the options to comply with the LCR. The requirements may differ
      depending on the option to be used as well as jurisdiction-specific
      considerations. The scope of these requirements will generally cover the
      following areas:

      (1) The jurisdiction should devise the supervisory requirements governing
          banks’ usage of the options, having regard to the guidance set out in this
          chapter. Any bank-specific requirements should be communicated to the
          affected banks.

      (2) Banks using the options should be informed of the minimum amount of
          Level 1 assets that they are required to hold in the relevant currency. The
          jurisdiction should set a minimum level for banks in the jurisdiction. This
          should complement the requirement under LCR31.50(3) below.

      (3) In order to control the usage of the options within the banking system,
          banks should be informed of any supervisory restriction applicable to them
          in terms of the maximum amount of alternative HQLA (under each or all of
          the options) they are allowed to hold. For example, if the maximum usage
          level is 70%, a bank should maintain at least 30% of its HQLA stock in Level 1
          assets in the relevant currency. The maximum level of usage of the options
          set by the jurisdiction should be consistent with the calculations and
          projections used to support its compliance with Principles 1 and 2.

      (4) The jurisdiction may apply additional haircuts to banks that use the options
          to limit the uncertainty of performance, or mitigate the risks of non-
          performance, of the options used (see Principle 2). For example, a jurisdiction
          that relies heavily on Option 3 may observe that a large amount of Level 2A
          assets will be held by banks to fulfil their LCR needs, thereby increasing the
          market liquidity risk of these assets. This may necessitate increasing the
          Option 3 haircut for banks that rely heavily on these Level 2A assets.

      (5) The jurisdiction may choose to apply further restrictions to banks that use
          the options.


31.51
        The jurisdiction should demonstrate that through its data collection framework
        (eg as part of regular banking returns), sufficient data can be obtained from its
        banks to ascertain compliance with the supervisory requirements as
        communicated to the banks. The jurisdiction should determine the reporting
        requirements, including the types of data and information required, the manner
        and frequency of reporting, and how the data and information collected will be
        used.

31.52 The jurisdiction should also indicate how it intends to monitor banks’ compliance
      with the relevant rules and requirements. This may be performed through a
      combination of off-site analysis of information collected, prudential interviews
      with banks and on-site examinations as necessary. For example, an on-site review
      may be necessary to determine the quality of a bank’s foreign exchange risk
      management in order to assess the extent which the bank should be allowed to
      use Option 2 to satisfy its LCR requirements.

31.53 The jurisdiction should demonstrate that it has sufficient supervisory powers and
      tools at its disposal to ensure compliance with the requirements governing banks’
      usage of the options. These will include tools for assessing compliance with
      specific requirements (eg foreign exchange risk management under Option 2 and
      price risk management under Option 3) as well as general measures and powers
      available to impose penalties should banks fail to comply with the requirements
      applicable to them. The jurisdiction should also demonstrate that it has sufficient
      powers to direct banks to comply with the general rules and/or specific
      requirements imposed on them. Examples of such measures are the power to
      issue directives to the banks, restriction of financial activities, financial penalties,
      increase of Pillar 2 capital, etc.

31.54 The jurisdiction should restrict a bank from using the options should it fail to
      comply with the relevant requirements.

31.55 The jurisdiction should demonstrate that it has a documented framework that is
      disclosed (whether on its website or through other means) upon the adoption of
      the options for alternative treatment. The document should contain clear and
      transparent information that will enable other national supervisors and
      stakeholders to gain a sufficient understanding of its compliance with the
      qualifying principles for adoption of the options and the manner in which it
      supervises the use of the options by its banks.

31.56 The disclosure should cover the following:
       (1) the jurisdiction’s self-assessment of insufficient HQLA in the domestic
           currency, including relevant data about the supply of, and demand for,
           HQLA, and major factors (eg structural, cyclical or jurisdiction-specific)

            influencing the supply and demand. This assessment should correspond with
            the self-assessment required under LCR31.57 to LCR31.61 below;

       (2) the jurisdiction’s supervisory approach to applying the alternative treatment,
           including the option(s) allowed to be used by banks, any guidelines,
           requirements and restrictions associated with the use of such option(s) by
           banks, and approach to monitoring banks’ compliance with them;

       (3) if Option 1 is adopted, the terms of the committed liquidity facility, including
           the maturity of the facility, the commitment fee charged (and the approach
           adopted for setting the fee), securities eligible as collateral for the facility
           (and margins required), and other terms, including any restrictions on banks’
           usage of this option;

       (4) if Option 2 is adopted, the foreign currencies (and types of securities under
           those currencies) allowed to be used, haircuts applicable to the foreign
           currency HQLA, and any restrictions on banks’ usage of this option; and

       (5) if Option 3 is adopted, the Level 2A assets allowed to be used in excess of
           the 40% cap (and the associated criteria), haircuts applicable to Level 2A
           assets (within and above the 40% cap), and any restrictions on banks’ usage
           of this option.

31.57 The jurisdiction should update the disclosed information whenever there are
      changes to the information (eg updated self-assessment of insufficient HQLA
      performed).

31.58 The jurisdiction should perform a review of its eligibility for alternative treatment
      every five years after it has adopted the options. The primary purpose of this
      review is to determine that there remains insufficient HQLA in the jurisdiction.
      The review should be in the form of a self-assessment of the jurisdiction’s
      compliance with each of the Principles set out in this chapter.

31.59 The jurisdiction should have a credible process for conducting the self-
      assessment, and should provide sufficient information and analysis to support the
      self-assessment. The results of the self-assessment should be disclosed (on its
      website or through other means) and accessible by other national supervisors
      and stakeholders.


31.60 Where the self-assessment reflects that insufficient HQLA no longer exists, the
      jurisdiction should devise a plan for transition to the standard HQLA treatment
      under the LCR and notify the Basel Committee accordingly. If the issue of

       insufficiency remains but weaknesses in the jurisdiction’s relevant supervisory
       framework are identified from the self-assessment, the jurisdiction should
       disclose its plan to address those weaknesses within a reasonable period.

31.61 If the jurisdiction is aware of circumstances (eg relating to fiscal conditions,
      market infrastructure or availability of liquidity, etc.) that have radically changed
      to an extent that may render insufficient HQLA no longer relevant to the
      jurisdiction, it must conduct a self-assessment promptly (ie without waiting until
      the next self-assessment is due) and notify the Basel Committee of the result as
      soon as practicable. The Basel Committee may similarly request the jurisdiction to
      conduct a self-assessment ahead of schedule if the Basel Committee is aware of
      changes that will significantly affect the jurisdiction’s eligibility for alternative
      treatment.

                                 LCR40
                                 Cash inflows and outflows
                                 This chapter defines the denominator of the
                                 Liquidity Coverage Ratio: net cash outflows in
                                 the specified stress scenario for the subsequent
                                 30 calendar days.


                                 Definition of total net cash outflows
40.1   The term total net cash outflows is defined as the total expected cash outflows
       minus total expected cash inflows in the specified stress scenario for the
       subsequent 30 calendar days. Total expected cash outflows are calculated by
       multiplying the outstanding balances of various categories or types of liabilities
       and off-balance sheet commitments by the rates at which they are expected to
       run off or be drawn down. Total expected cash inflows are calculated by
       multiplying the outstanding balances of various categories of contractual
       receivables by the rates at which they are expected to flow in under the scenario
       up to an aggregate cap of 75% of total expected cash outflows.




 Where applicable, cash inflows and outflows should include interest
                   that is expected to be received and paid during the 30-day time
                   horizon.


40.2   While most run-off rates, drawdown rates and similar factors are harmonised
       across jurisdictions as outlined in this standard, a few parameters are to be
       determined by supervisory authorities at the national level. Where this is the case,
       the parameters should be transparent and made publicly available.

40.3   LCR99 provides a summary of the factors that are applied to each category.

40.4   Banks will not be permitted to double-count items, ie if an asset is included as
       part of the stock of high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) (ie the numerator), the
       associated cash inflows cannot also be counted as cash inflows (ie part of the
       denominator). Where there is potential that an item could be counted in multiple
       outflow categories (eg committed liquidity facilities granted to cover debt
       maturing within the 30 calendar day period), a bank only has to assume up to the
       maximum contractual outflow for that product.



Cash outflows – Retail deposit run-off
40.5   Retail deposits are defined as deposits placed with a bank by a natural person.
       Deposits from legal entities, sole proprietorships or partnerships are captured in
       wholesale deposit categories. Retail deposits subject to the Liquidity Coverage
       Ratio (LCR) include demand deposits and term deposits, unless otherwise
       excluded under the criteria set out in LCR40.16 and LCR40.17.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       If a deposit is contractually pledged to a bank as collateral to secure a
                  credit facility or loan granted by the bank that will not mature or be
                  settled in the next 30 days, should the pledged deposit be excluded
                  from the calculation of the total expected cash outflows under the LCR?

                  The pledged deposit may be excluded from the LCR calculation only if
                  the following conditions are met:

                  - the loan will not mature or be settled in the next 30 days;

                  - the pledge arrangement is subject to a legally enforceable contract
                    disallowing withdrawal of the deposit before the loan is fully settled
                    or repaid; and

                  - the amount of deposit to be excluded cannot exceed the
                    outstanding balance of the loan (which may be the drawn portion
                    of a credit facility).

                  The above treatment does not apply to a deposit which is pledged
                  against an undrawn facility, in which case the higher of the outflow
                  rate applicable to the undrawn facility or the pledged deposit applies.

       FAQ2       What is the treatment in the LCR of unsecured precious metals
                  liabilities (such as deposits in precious metals received by a bank)? Are
                  the run-off rates for retail deposits and unsecured wholesale funding
                  according to LCR40.5 to LCR40.44 applicable?

                  Deposits in precious metals received by a bank should be treated as
                  retail deposits according to LCR40.5 to LCR40.18 or as unsecured
                  wholesale funding according to LCR40.19 to LCR40.44 depending on
                  the type of counterparty.

                  In deviation from this treatment, jurisdictions may alternatively allow a
                  bank to assume no outflow if:





                  - the deposit physically settles and the bank is able to supply the
                    precious metals from its own inventories; or

                  - contractual arrangements give the bank the choice between cash
                    settlement and physical delivery and there are no market practices
                    or reputational factors that may limit the bank’s discretion to
                    exercise the option in a way that would minimise the LCR-effective
                    outflow, ie to opt for physical delivery if the bank is able to supply
                    the precious metals from its own inventories.

                  Supervisors in such jurisdictions must publicly disclose the treatment
                  should they opt for the alternative treatment.


40.6   These retail deposits are divided into “stable” and “less stable” portions of funds
       as described below, with minimum run-off rates listed for each category. The run-
       off rates for retail deposits are minimum floors, with higher run-off rates
       established by individual jurisdictions as appropriate to capture depositor
       behaviour in a period of stress in each jurisdiction.


Stable deposits (run-off rate = 3% and higher)

40.7   Stable deposits, which usually receive a run-off factor of 5%, are the amount of
       the deposits that are fully insured by an effective deposit insurance scheme or
       by a public guarantee that provides equivalent protection and where:

       (1) the depositors have other established relationships with the bank that make
           deposit withdrawal highly unlikely; or

       (2) the deposits are in transactional accounts (eg accounts where salaries are
           automatically deposited).



  “Fully insured” means that 100% of the deposit amount, up to the
                   deposit insurance limit, is covered by an effective deposit insurance
                   scheme. Deposit balances up to the deposit insurance limit may be
                   treated as “fully insured” even if a depositor has a balance in excess of
                   the deposit insurance limit. However, any amount in excess of the
                   deposit insurance limit must be treated as “less stable”. For example, if
                   a depositor has a deposit of 150 that is covered by a deposit insurance
                   scheme, which has a limit of 100, where the depositor would receive at
                   least 100 from the deposit insurance scheme if the financial institution
                   were unable to pay, then 100 would be considered “fully insured” and
                   treated as stable deposits while 50 would be treated as less stable
                   deposits. However if the deposit insurance scheme only covered a
                   percentage of the funds from the first currency unit (eg 90% of the
                   deposit amount up to a limit of 100) then the entire 150 deposit would
                   be less stable.


40.8   For the purposes of this standard, an “effective deposit insurance scheme” refers
       to a scheme:

       (1) that guarantees that it has the ability to make prompt payouts;

       (2) for which the coverage is clearly defined;

       (3) of which public awareness is high; and

       (4) in which the deposit insurer has formal legal powers to fulfil its mandate and
           is operationally independent, transparent and accountable.

40.9   A jurisdiction with an explicit and legally binding sovereign deposit guarantee
       that effectively functions as deposit insurance may be regarded as having an
       effective deposit insurance scheme.

40.10 The presence of deposit insurance alone is not sufficient to consider a deposit
      “stable”.

40.11 Jurisdictions may choose to apply a run-off rate of 3% to stable deposits in their
      jurisdiction, if they meet the above stable deposit criteria and the following
      additional criteria for deposit insurance schemes:

       (1) the insurance scheme is based on a system of prefunding via the periodic
           collection of levies on banks with insured deposits;

       (2) the scheme has adequate means of ensuring ready access to additional
           funding in the event of a large call on its reserves, eg an explicit and legally

           binding guarantee from the government, or a standing authority to borrow
           from the government; and

       (3) access to insured deposits is available to depositors in a short period of time
           once the deposit insurance scheme is triggered.


The Financial Stability Board has asked the International Association of
                   Deposit Insurers (IADI), in conjunction with the Basel Committee and
                   other relevant bodies where appropriate, to update its Core Principles
                   and other guidance to better reflect leading practices. The criteria in
                   this paragraph will therefore be reviewed by the Committee once the
                   work by IADI has been completed.

The requirement for periodic collection of levies from banks does not
                   preclude that deposit insurance schemes may, on occasion, provide for
                   contribution holidays due to the scheme being well-funded at a given
                   point in time.

 This period of time would typically be expected to be no more than
                   seven business days.


40.12 Jurisdictions applying the 3% run-off rate to stable deposits with deposit
      insurance arrangements that meet the above criteria should be able to provide
      evidence of run-off rates for stable deposits within the banking system below 3%
      during any periods of stress experienced that are consistent with the conditions
      within the LCR.


Less stable deposits (run-off rates = 10% and higher)

40.13 Supervisory authorities should develop additional buckets with higher run-off
      rates as necessary to apply to buckets of potentially less stable retail deposits in
      their jurisdictions, with a minimum run-off rate of 10%. These jurisdiction-specific
      run-off rates should be clearly outlined and publicly transparent. Buckets of less
      stable deposits may include deposits that are not fully covered by an effective
      deposit insurance scheme or sovereign deposit guarantee, high-value deposits,
      deposits from sophisticated or high net worth individuals, deposits that can be
      withdrawn quickly (eg internet deposits) and foreign currency deposits, as
      determined by each jurisdiction.


40.14 If a bank is not able to readily identify which retail deposits would qualify as
      “stable” according to the above definition (eg the bank cannot determine which
      deposits are covered by an effective deposit insurance scheme or a sovereign
      deposit guarantee), it must place the full amount in the “less stable” buckets as
      established by its supervisor.

40.15 Foreign currency retail deposits are deposits denominated in any other currency
      than the domestic currency in a jurisdiction in which the bank operates.
      Supervisors will determine the run-off factor that banks in their jurisdiction
      should use for foreign currency deposits. Foreign currency deposits must be
      considered as “less stable” if there is a reason to believe that such deposits are
      more volatile than domestic currency deposits. Factors affecting the volatility of
      foreign currency deposits include the type and sophistication of the depositors,
      and the nature of such deposits (eg whether the deposits are linked to business
      needs in the same currency, or whether the deposits are placed in a search for
      yield).

40.16 Cash outflows related to retail term deposits with a residual maturity or
      withdrawal notice period greater than 30 days may be excluded from total
      expected cash outflows if the depositor has no legal right to withdraw deposits
      within the 30-day horizon of the LCR, or if early withdrawal results in a significant
      penalty that is materially greater than the loss of interest.

If a portion of the term deposit can be withdrawn without incurring
                   such a penalty, that portion must be treated as a demand deposit. The
                   remaining balance of the deposit should be treated as a term deposit.


40.17 If a bank allows a depositor to withdraw such deposits without applying the
      corresponding penalty, or despite a clause that says the depositor has no legal
      right to withdraw, the entire category of these funds must be treated as demand
      deposits (ie regardless of the remaining term, the deposits would be subject to
      the deposit run-off rates as specified in LCR40.6 to LCR40.15). Supervisors in each
      jurisdiction may choose to outline exceptional circumstances that would qualify
      as hardship, under which the exceptional term deposit could be withdrawn by the
      depositor without changing the treatment of the entire pool of deposits.

40.18 Notwithstanding the above, supervisors may also opt to treat retail term deposits
      that meet the qualifications set out in LCR40.16 with a higher than 0% run-off
      rate, if they clearly state the treatment that applies for their jurisdiction and apply
      this treatment in a similar fashion across banks in their jurisdiction. Such reasons
      could include, but are not limited to, supervisory concerns that depositors would
      withdraw term deposits in a similar fashion as retail demand deposits during
       either normal or stress times, concern that banks may repay such deposits early
       in stressed times for reputational reasons, or the presence of unintended
       incentives on banks to impose material penalties on consumers if deposits are
       withdrawn early. In these cases supervisors would assess a higher run-off against
       all or some of such deposits.


Cash outflows – unsecured wholesale funding run-off
40.19 For the purposes of the LCR, "unsecured wholesale funding” is defined as those
      liabilities and general obligations that are raised from non-natural persons (ie
      legal entities, including sole proprietorships and partnerships) and are not
      collateralised by legal rights to specifically designated assets owned by the
      borrowing institution in the case of bankruptcy, insolvency, liquidation or
      resolution. Obligations related to derivative contracts are excluded from this
      definition.

40.20 The wholesale funding included in the LCR is defined as all funding that is
      callable within the LCR's horizon of 30 days or that has its earliest possible
      contractual maturity date situated within this horizon (such as maturing term
      deposits and unsecured debt securities) as well as funding with an undetermined
      maturity. This should include all funding with options that are exercisable at the
      investor's discretion within the 30-calendar-day horizon. For funding with options
      exercisable at the bank's discretion, supervisors should take into account
      reputational factors that may limit a bank's ability not to exercise the option. In
      particular, where the market expects certain liabilities to be redeemed before
      their legal final maturity date, banks and supervisors should assume such
      behaviour for the purpose of the LCR and include these liabilities as outflows.


This could reflect a case where a bank may imply that it is under
                   liquidity stress if it did not exercise an option on its own funding.


40.21 Wholesale funding that is callable by the funds provider subject to a
      contractually defined and binding notice period surpassing the 30-day horizon is
      not included.




This takes into account any embedded options linked to the funds
                   provider’s ability to call the funding before contractual maturity.



Unsecured wholesale funding provided by small business customers:
5%, 10% and higher
40.22 Unsecured wholesale funding provided by small business customers is treated
      the same way as retail deposits for the purposes of this standard, effectively
      distinguishing between a "stable" portion of funding provided by small business
      customers and different buckets of less stable funding defined by each
      jurisdiction. The same bucket definitions and associated run-off factors apply as
      for retail deposits.

40.23 This category consists of deposits and other extensions of funds made by non-
      financial small business customers. "Small business customers" are defined in line
      with the definition of loans extended to small businesses in CRE30.20 to CRE30.22
      that are managed as retail exposures and are generally considered as having
      similar liquidity risk characteristics to retail accounts provided the total
      aggregated funding raised from one small business customer is less than €1
      million (on a consolidated basis where applicable).


 “Aggregated funding” means the gross amount (ie not netting any
                   form of credit extended to the legal entity) of all forms of funding (eg
                   deposits or debt securities or similar derivative exposure for which the
                   counterparty is known to be a small business customer). In addition,
                   applying the limit on a consolidated basis means that where one or
                   more small business customers are affiliated with each other, they may
                   be considered as a single creditor such that the limit is applied to the
                   total funding received by the bank from this group of customers.



       FAQ
       FAQ1       If a deposit is contractually pledged to a bank as collateral to secure a
                  credit facility or loan granted by the bank that will not mature or be
                  settled in the next 30 days, should the pledged deposit be excluded
                  from the calculation of the total expected cash outflows under the LCR?

                  The pledged deposit may be excluded from the LCR calculation only if
                  the following conditions are met:

                  - the loan will not mature or be settled in the next 30 days;

                  - the pledge arrangement is subject to a legally enforceable contract
                    disallowing withdrawal of the deposit before the loan is fully settled
                    or repaid; and

                  - the amount of deposit to be excluded cannot exceed the
                    outstanding balance of the loan (which may be the drawn portion
                    of a credit facility).

                  The above treatment does not apply to a deposit which is pledged
                  against an undrawn facility, in which case the higher of the outflow
                  rate applicable to the undrawn facility or the pledged deposit applies.


40.24 Where a bank does not have any exposure to a small business customer that
      would enable it to use the definition under CRE30.20 to CRE30.22, the bank may
      include such a deposit in this category provided that the total aggregate funding
      raised from the customer is less than €1 million (on a consolidated basis where
      applicable) and the deposit is managed as a retail deposit. This means that the
      bank treats such deposits in its internal risk management systems consistently
      over time and in the same manner as other retail deposits, and that the deposits
      are not individually managed in a way comparable to larger corporate deposits.

40.25 Term deposits from small business customers must be treated in accordance with
      the treatment for term retail deposits as outlined in LCR40.16 to LCR40.18.


Operational deposits generated by clearing, custody and cash
management activities: 25%
40.26 Certain activities lead to financial and non-financial customers needing to place,
      or leave, deposits with a bank in order to facilitate their access and ability to use
      payment and settlement systems and otherwise make payments. These funds
      may receive a 25% run-off factor only if the customer has a substantive
      dependency with the bank and the deposit is required for such activities.
      Supervisory approval should be given to ensure that banks utilising this
      treatment actually are conducting these operational activities at the level
      indicated. Supervisors may choose not to permit banks to utilise the operational
      deposit run-off rates in cases where, for example, a significant portion of
      operational deposits are provided by a small proportion of customers (ie
      concentration risk).


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Should deposits from a central counterparty be regarded as
                   operational deposits, noting that such deposits are usually associated
                   with clearing activities?

                   As for any other qualifying operational deposits, the conditions set out
                   in LCR40.26 to LCR40.36 must be fulfilled.


40.27 Qualifying activities in this context refer to clearing, custody or cash management
      activities that meet the following criteria.

       (1) The customer must be reliant on the bank to perform these services as an
           independent third party intermediary in order to fulfil its normal banking
           activities over the next 30 days. For example, this condition would not be
           met if the bank is aware that the customer has adequate backup
           arrangements.

       (2) These services must be provided under a legally binding agreement to
           institutional customers.

       (3) The termination of such agreements must be subject either to a notice
           period of at least 30 days or significant switching costs (such as those related
           to transaction, information technology, early termination or legal costs) to be
           borne by the customer if the operational deposits are moved before 30 days.

40.28 Qualifying operational deposits generated by such an activity are ones where:



       (1) The deposits are by-products of the underlying services provided by the
           banking organisation and not sought out in the wholesale market in the sole
           interest of offering interest income.

       (2) The deposits are held in specifically designated accounts and priced without
           giving an economic incentive to the customer (not limited to paying market
           interest rates) to leave any excess funds on these accounts. In the case that
           interest rates in a jurisdiction are close to zero, such accounts should be non-
           interest bearing. Banks should be particularly aware that during prolonged
           periods of low interest rates, excess balances (as defined below) could be
           significant.

40.29 Any excess balances that could be withdrawn and would still leave enough funds
      to fulfil these clearing, custody and cash management activities do not qualify for
      the 25% factor. In other words, only that part of the deposit balance with the
      service provider that is proven to serve a customer’s operational needs can
      qualify as stable. Excess balances must be treated in the appropriate category for
      non-operational deposits. If banks are unable to determine the amount of the
      excess balance, then the entire deposit must be assumed to be excess to
      requirements and, therefore, considered non-operational.

40.30 Banks must determine the methodology for identifying excess deposits that are
      excluded from this treatment. This assessment should be conducted at a
      sufficiently granular level to adequately assess the risk of withdrawal in an
      idiosyncratic stress. The methodology should take into account relevant factors
      such as the likelihood that wholesale customers have above average balances in
      advance of specific payment needs, and consider appropriate indicators (eg ratios
      of account balances to payment or settlement volumes or to assets under
      custody) to identify those customers that are not actively managing account
      balances efficiently.

40.31 Operational deposits must receive a 0% inflow assumption for the depositing
      bank given that these deposits are required for operational reasons, and are
      therefore not available to the depositing bank to repay other outflows.

40.32 Notwithstanding these operational categories, if the deposit under consideration
      arises out of correspondent banking or from the provision of prime brokerage
      services, it must be treated as if there were no operational activity for the purpose
      of determining run-off factors.


  Correspondent banking refers to arrangements under which one bank
                   (correspondent) holds deposits owned by other banks (respondents)
                   and provides payment and other services in order to settle foreign
                   currency transactions (eg so-called nostro and vostro accounts used to
                   settle transactions in a currency other than the domestic currency of
                   the respondent bank for the provision of clearing and settlement of
                   payments). Prime brokerage is a package of services offered to large
                   active investors, particularly institutional hedge funds. These services
                   usually include: clearing, settlement and custody; consolidated
                   reporting; financing (margin, repo or synthetic); securities lending;
                   capital introduction; and risk analytics.


40.33 The following paragraphs describe the types of activities that may generate
      operational deposits. A bank should assess whether the presence of such an
      activity does indeed generate an operational deposit as not all such activities
      qualify due to differences in customer dependency, activity and practices. A
      clearing relationship, in this context, refers to a service arrangement that enables
      customers to transfer funds (or securities) indirectly through direct participants in
      domestic settlement systems to final recipients. Such services are limited to the
      following activities:

       (1) transmission, reconciliation and confirmation of payment orders;

       (2) daylight overdraft, overnight financing and maintenance of post-settlement
           balances; and

       (3) determination of intraday and final settlement positions.

40.34 A custody relationship, in this context, refers to the provision of safekeeping,
      reporting, processing of assets or the facilitation of the operational and
      administrative elements of related activities on behalf of customers in the process
      of their transacting and retaining financial assets. Such services are limited to the
      settlement of securities transactions, the transfer of contractual payments, the
      processing of collateral, and the provision of custody related cash management
      services. Also included are the receipt of dividends and other income, client
      subscriptions and redemptions. Custodial services can furthermore extend to
      asset and corporate trust servicing, treasury, escrow, funds transfer, stock transfer
      and agency services, including payment and settlement services (excluding
      correspondent banking), and depository receipts.



40.35 A cash management relationship, in this context, refers to the provision of cash
      management and related services to customers. Cash management services, in
      this context, refers to those products and services provided to a customer to

       manage its cash flows, assets and liabilities, and conduct financial transactions
       necessary to the customer’s ongoing operations. Such services are limited to
       payment remittance, collection and aggregation of funds, payroll administration,
       and control over the disbursement of funds.

40.36 The portion of the operational deposits generated by clearing, custody and cash
      management activities that is fully covered by deposit insurance may receive the
      same treatment as “stable” retail deposits.


Treatment of deposits in institutional networks of cooperative banks:
25% or 100%
40.37 An institutional network of cooperative (or otherwise named) banks is a group of
      legally autonomous banks with a statutory framework of cooperation with
      common strategic focus and brand where specific functions are performed by
      central institutions or specialised service providers. So long as both the bank that
      has received the monies and the bank that has deposited participate in the same
      institutional network’s mutual protection scheme against illiquidity and
      insolvency of its members, a 25% run-off rate may be given to the amount of
      deposits of member institutions with the central institution or specialised central
      service providers that are placed:

       (1) due to statutory minimum deposit requirements, which are registered at
           regulators; or

       (2) in the context of common task sharing and legal, statutory or contractual
           arrangements.

40.38 As with other operational deposits, these deposits must receive a 0% inflow
      assumption for the depositing bank, as these funds are considered to remain with
      the centralised institution.

40.39 Supervisory approval should be given to ensure that banks utilising this
      treatment actually are the central institution or a central service provider of such
      a cooperative (or otherwise named) network. Correspondent banking activities
      must not be included in this treatment and must receive a 100% outflow
      treatment, as must funds placed at the central institutions or specialised service
      providers for any other reason other than those outlined in LCR40.37, or for
      operational functions of clearing, custody, or cash management as outlined in
      LCR40.33 to LCR40.35.


Unsecured wholesale funding provided by non-financial corporates
and sovereigns, central banks, multilateral development banks and
public sector entities: 20% or 40%
40.40 This category comprises all deposits and other extensions of unsecured funding
      from non-financial corporate customers (that are not categorised as small
      business customers) and (both domestic and foreign) sovereign, central bank,
      multilateral development bank, and public sector entity (PSE) customers that are
      not specifically held for operational purposes (as defined above). The run-off
      factor for these funds must be 40%, unless the criteria in LCR40.41 are met.

40.41 Unsecured wholesale funding provided by non-financial corporate customers,
      sovereigns, central banks, multilateral development banks and PSEs without
      operational relationships may receive a 20% run-off factor if the entire amount of
      the deposit is fully covered by an effective deposit insurance scheme or by a
      public guarantee that provides equivalent protection.


Unsecured wholesale funding provided by other legal entity
customers: 100%
40.42 This category consists of all deposits and other funding from other institutions
      (including banks, securities firms, insurance companies, etc), fiduciaries,
      beneficiaries, conduits and special purpose vehicles, affiliated entities of the
      bank and other entities that are not specifically held for operational purposes
      (as defined above) and not included in the prior three categories. The run-off
      factor for these funds must be 100%.


 Fiduciary is defined in this context as a legal entity that is authorised to
                   manage assets on behalf of a third party. Fiduciaries include asset
                   management entities such as pension funds and other collective
                   investment vehicles.

Beneficiary is defined in this context as a legal entity that receives, or
                   may become eligible to receive, benefits under a will, insurance policy,
                   retirement plan, annuity, trust, or other contract.

 Outflows on unsecured wholesale funding from affiliated entities of the
                   bank are included in this category unless the funding is part of an
                   operational relationship, a deposit in an institutional network of
                   cooperative banks or the affiliated entity is a non-financial corporate.



       FAQ
       FAQ1        There may be various cash inflows and outflows between a central
                   counterparty (CCP) and its member banks. Can a bank net off such
                   cash flows with respect to trades cleared with a CCP when calculating
                   the LCR?

                   There is no specific treatment of cash flows between CCPs and its
                   member banks, ie netting is restricted to cases where it is permitted in
                   the LCR framework (eg derivative cash flows that are subject to the
                   same master netting agreement in LCR40.49).


40.43 All notes, bonds and other debt securities issued by the bank must be included in
      this category regardless of the holder, unless the bond is sold exclusively in the
      retail market and held in retail accounts (including small business customer
      accounts treated as retail per LCR40.22 to LCR40.24), in which case the
      instruments may be treated in the appropriate retail or small business customer
      deposit category. To be treated in this manner, it is not sufficient that the debt
      instruments are specifically designed and marketed to retail or small business
      customers. Rather there should be limitations placed such that those instruments
      cannot be bought and held by parties other than retail or small business
      customers.

40.44 Customer cash balances arising from the provision of prime brokerage services,
      including but not limited to the cash arising from prime brokerage services as
      identified in LCR40.32, must be considered separate from any required
      segregated balances related to client protection regimes imposed by national
      regulations, and must not be netted against other customer exposures included
      in this standard. These offsetting balances held in segregated accounts are
      treated as inflows in LCR40.87 and must be excluded from the stock of HQLA.


Secured funding run-off
40.45 For the purposes of this standard, “secured funding” is defined as those liabilities
      and general obligations that are collateralised by legal rights to specifically
      designated assets owned by the borrowing institution in the case of bankruptcy,
      insolvency, liquidation or resolution. Unless the counterparty is a central bank,
      secured funding does not include transactions collateralised by assets that are
      not tradable in financial markets such as property, plant and equipment.



40.46 Loss of secured funding on short-term financing transactions: In this scenario, the
      ability to continue to transact repurchase, reverse repurchase and other securities
      financing transactions is limited to transactions backed by HQLA or with the bank’
      s domestic sovereign, PSE or central bank. Collateral swaps must be treated as
       repurchase or reverse repurchase agreements, as must any other transaction with
       a similar form. Additionally, collateral lent to the bank’s customers to effect short
       positions must be treated as a form of secured funding. For the scenario, a bank
       must apply the following factors to all outstanding secured funding transactions
       with maturities within the 30-calendar-day stress horizon, including customer
       short positions that do not have a specified contractual maturity. The amount of
       outflow must be calculated based on the amount of funds raised through the
       transaction, and not the value of the underlying collateral.

In this context, PSEs that receive this treatment should be limited to
                   those that are 20% risk weighted or better, and “domestic” can be
                   defined as a jurisdiction where a bank is legally incorporated.

A customer short position in this context describes a transaction where
                   a bank’s customer sells a security it does not own, and the bank
                   subsequently obtains the same security from internal or external
                   sources to make delivery into the sale. Internal sources include the
                   bank’s own inventory of collateral as well as rehypothecatable
                   collateral held in other customer margin accounts. External sources
                   include collateral obtained through a securities borrowing, reverse
                   repo, or like transaction.


      FAQ
      FAQ1        Are client shorts covered by external securities borrowings subject to
                  LCR40.79 (under “secured lending, including reverse repos and external
                  securities borrowings”) or LCR40.46 (“secured funding run-off”)? Firm
                  shorts covered by external securities borrowings are clearly covered by
                  LCR40.79, and it seems more logical that client shorts covered by
                  external securities borrowings should be as well. However, LCR40.46
                  makes references to customer shorts and the treatment is different.

                  The treatments of customer shorts versus firm shorts are separate and
                  distinct and for this reason are addressed in two separate paragraphs.
                  Customer shorts are considered equivalent to other secured financing
                  transactions, as the proceeds from the customer’s short sale may be re-
                  used by the facilitating bank to finance the purchase or borrowing of
                  the shorted security. Contrary to firm short positions, customer short
                  positions are initiated and maintained at the discretion of the
                  customer, and therefore the availability of this financing may be
                  uncertain during a period of stress. These characteristics explain why
                  customer shorts are treated in accordance with the run-off assumption
                  in LCR40.48.


40.47 Due to the high quality of Level 1 assets, no reduction in funding availability
      against these assets is assumed to occur. Moreover, no reduction in funding
      availability is expected for any maturing secured funding transactions with the
      bank’s domestic central bank. A reduction in funding availability must be
      assigned to maturing transactions backed by Level 2 assets equivalent to the
      required haircuts. A 25% factor may be applied for maturing secured funding
      transactions with the bank’s domestic sovereign, multilateral development banks,
      or domestic PSEs that have a 20% or lower risk weight, when the transactions are
      backed by assets other than Level 1 or Level 2A assets, in recognition that these
      entities are unlikely to withdraw secured funding from banks in a time of market-
      wide stress. This treatment, however, may be applied only to outstanding secured
      funding transactions. Unused collateral or merely the capacity to borrow, as
      determined at the end of the day for the reporting date, must not be given any
      credit in this treatment.


      FAQ
      FAQ1        At what time is the “unused” assessment performed? Is it at the end of
                  day in the respective jurisdiction?

                  The assessment is at the end of the day of the reporting date in the
                  respective jurisdiction.


       FAQ2        Should “domestic” also refer to a jurisdiction where a bank’s branch or
                   consolidated subsidiary is operating? (Note: it is not uncommon for a
                   bank’s overseas branch to conduct repo transactions with the central
                   bank of the host jurisdiction, which is not the place of “incorporation”
                   of the bank but the place in which the bank’s overseas branch
                   operates.)

                   The application of the reduced outflow assumptions for secured
                   funding transactions with “domestic” public counterparties should be
                   principally limited to counterparties from the jurisdiction where a bank
                   is legally incorporated. It may be expanded to other public
                   counterparties where the reduced outflow rates in LCR40.48 can be
                   expected to reflect the behaviour of the other public counterparties. For
                   example, in terms of central banks, this may be assumed when the
                   overseas branch has equal access to central bank funding as domestic
                   banks and where it seems reasonable that this equal treatment will
                   remain in the context of central bank measures in times of severe
                   idiosyncratic or market-wide stress.


40.48 For all other maturing transactions the run-off factor is 100%, including
      transactions where a bank has satisfied customers’ short positions with its own
      long inventory. All secured transactions maturing within 30 days should be
      reported according to the collateral actually pledged as of close of business on
      the LCR measurement date. If the bank pledges a pool of assets and cannot
      determine which specific assets in the collateral pool are used to collateralise the
      transactions with a residual maturity greater than 30 days, it may assume that
      assets are encumbered to these transactions in order of increasing liquidity value,
      consistent with the methodology set out in LCR30.16, in such a way that assets
      with the lowest liquidity value in the LCR are assigned to the transactions with the
      longest residual maturities first. The table below summarises the outflow
      applicable to transactions maturing within 30 days.



              Categories for outstanding maturing secured funding transactions          Amount to add to cash outflows

        Backed by Level 1 assets or with central banks                           0%

        Backed by Level 2A assets                                                15%

        Secured funding transactions with domestic sovereign, PSEs or            
        multilateral development banks that are not backed by Level 1 or
        2A assets. PSEs that receive this treatment are limited to those
        that have a risk weight of 20% or lower.
25%
                                                                                 25%

        Backed by residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS)
        eligible for inclusion in Level 2B

        Backed by other Level 2B assets                                          50%

        All others                                                              100%




Cash outflows – Additional requirements
40.49 Derivatives cash outflows: The sum of all net derivative cash outflows must
      receive a 100% factor. Banks must calculate, in accordance with their existing
      valuation methodologies, expected contractual derivative cash inflows and
      outflows. Cash flows may be calculated on a net basis (ie inflows can offset
      outflows) by counterparty only where a valid master netting agreement exists.
      Banks should exclude from such calculations those liquidity requirements that
      would result from increased collateral needs due to market value movements or
      declines in value of collateral posted. Options that can be exercised within the
      next 30 days, including options that expire in greater than 30 days (eg an
      American-style option), must be assumed to be exercised when they are “in the
      money” to the option buyer. For transactions involving a delivery obligation that
      can be fulfilled with a variety of asset classes, delivery of the least valuable asset
      possible (“cheapest to deliver”) must be assumed. This should apply
      symmetrically to both the inflow and outflow perspective, such that the obligor is
      assumed to deliver the security with the lowest liquidity value. Cash flows arising
      from foreign exchange derivative transactions that involve a full exchange of
      principal amounts on a simultaneous basis (or within the same day) may be
      reflected as a net cash flow figure, even where those transactions are not covered
      by a master netting agreement.



 These risks are captured in LCR40.52 and LCR40.56, respectively.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Would it be correct to assume that expected contractual derivatives
                   cash inflows from “in the money” options for which the bank is the
                   option holder can be included without contravening the high-level
                   principle in LCR40.75 that contingent inflows are not to be recognised?

                   Yes, LCR40.49 states that “options should be assumed to be exercised
                   when they are in the money to the option buyer”, eg cash inflows from
                   contractual derivatives that are “in the money” may count towards
                   derivatives cash inflows in the LCR. This is an exception to both LCR40.
                   75, which excludes contingent inflows, and LCR40.85, which excludes
                   inflows with no specific date from the LCR.

       FAQ2        Could you confirm that options with delivery settlement during the
                   relevant period could be considered as cash flows to the extent of the
                   liquidity value of the delivered assets? Or whether all options are
                   assumed to be cash-settled?

                   Options with delivery settlement shall be considered according to the
                   liquidity value of the delivered assets, ie the assets are subject to the
                   haircuts that would be applied if these assets were collateral in secured
                   transactions or collateral swaps. If contractual arrangements allow for
                   both physical delivery and cash settlement, cash settlement may be
                   assumed.


40.50 Where derivative payments are collateralised by HQLA, cash outflows should be
      calculated net of any corresponding cash or collateral inflows that would result,
      all other things being equal, from contractual obligations for cash or collateral to
      be provided to the bank, if the bank is legally entitled and operationally capable
      to re-use the collateral in new cash raising transactions once the collateral is
      received. This is in line with the principle that banks should not double count
      liquidity inflows and outflows.



40.51 Increased liquidity needs related to downgrade triggers embedded in financing
      transactions, derivatives and other contracts: 100% of the amount of collateral
      that would be posted for, or contractual cash outflows associated with, any
      downgrade up to and including a 3-notch downgrade. Often, contracts governing
      derivatives and other transactions have clauses that require the posting of
      additional collateral, drawdown of contingent facilities, or early repayment of
      existing liabilities upon the bank’s downgrade by a recognised credit rating
      organisation. The scenario therefore requires that for each contract in which
      “downgrade triggers” exist, the bank assumes that 100% of this additional
      collateral or cash outflow must be posted for any downgrade up to and including
      a 3-notch downgrade of the bank’s long-term credit rating. Triggers linked to a
      bank’s short-term rating should be assumed to be triggered at the corresponding
      long-term rating in accordance with published ratings criteria. The impact of the
      downgrade must consider impacts on all types of margin collateral and
      contractual triggers which change rehypothecation rights for non-segregated
      collateral.


      FAQ
      FAQ1       Do LCR40.51 to LCR40.55 apply in the same way to all derivative
                 instruments, whether over-the-counter or on-exchange, whether
                 cleared or not? In particular, can confirmation be given that margin
                 posted for clearance through a central counterparty (CCP) and held for
                 the benefit of the bank in accordance with the rules of such CCP should
                 be recognised under the logic of these paragraphs, although the point
                 is not addressed explicitly?

                 Unless expressly specified otherwise, the provisions apply generally.
                 Any Level 1 assets in segregated accounts held in a bank’s name by the
                 CCP will be treated in accordance with LCR40.52.

      FAQ2       LCR40.52 requires that if a bank has posted a non-Level 1 asset as
                 collateral to secure its mark-to-market exposure under derivatives
                 contracts or other transactions, the bank must hold additional stock of
                 HQLA to cater for a potential reduction in the value of the collateral to
                 the extent of 20% of the collateral value. Similar references to “other
                 transactions” are also made in LCR40.51 and LCR40.56. Banks have
                 queries on the scope of “other transactions”. Is it the policy intent that
                 LCR40.51, LCR40.52 and LCR40.56 are generally applicable to
                 derivatives transactions only?

                 LCR40.51, LCR40.52 and LCR40.56 are only applicable to derivatives
                 and other transactions not specifically captured in the LCR framework.
                 Thus, they are not applicable to secured funding transactions


                  addressed in LCR40.45 to LCR40.48 and secured lending transactions
                  addressed in LCR40.78 to LCR40.79.


40.52 Increased liquidity needs related to the potential for valuation changes on posted
      collateral securing derivative and other transactions: 20% of the value of non-
      Level 1 posted collateral. Observation of market practices indicates that most
      counterparties to derivatives transactions typically are required to secure the
      mark-to-market valuation of their positions and that this is predominantly done
      using cash or sovereign, central bank, multilateral development banks, or PSE
      debt securities with a 0% risk weight under the standardised approach to credit
      risk (CRE20). When these Level 1 liquid asset securities are posted as collateral,
      the framework will not require that an additional stock of HQLA be maintained
      for potential valuation changes. If however, counterparties are securing mark-to-
      market exposures with other forms of collateral, to cover the potential loss of
      market value on those securities, 20% of the value of all such posted collateral,
      net of collateral received on a counterparty basis (provided that the collateral
      received is not subject to restrictions on reuse or rehypothecation) must be
      added to the stock of required HQLA by the bank posting such collateral. This
      20% must be calculated based on the notional amount required to be posted as
      collateral after any other haircuts have been applied that may be applicable to
      the collateral category. Any collateral that is in a segregated margin account may
      only be used to offset outflows that are associated with payments that are
      eligible to be offset from that same account. No other form of netting (eg netting
      of offsetting collateral flows across counterparties) is permissible when
      calculating this outflow amount.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       Do the bank’s normal procedures apply to determine the notional
                  amount pursuant to the penultimate sentence of LCR40.52?

                  The notional amount to be collateralised in LCR40.52 is based on
                  contractual terms (eg collateral agreements) that regularly include the
                  methodology of calculating the amount to be covered (“notional
                  amount”).

       FAQ2       Do LCR40.51 to LCR40.55 apply in the same way to all derivative
                  instruments, whether over-the-counter or on-exchange, whether
                  cleared or not? In particular, can confirmation be given that margin
                  posted for clearance through a central counterparty (CCP) and held for
                  the benefit of the bank in accordance with the rules of such CCP should
                  be recognised under the logic of these paragraphs, although the point
                  is not addressed explicitly?



               Unless expressly specified otherwise, the provisions apply generally.
               Any Level 1 assets in segregated accounts held in a bank’s name by the
               CCP will be treated in accordance with LCR40.52.

     FAQ3      LCR40.52 requires that an additional stock of HQLA be maintained for
               outflows where the bank is posting non-Level 1 collateral securing its
               derivatives. Can this be interpreted as applying on a net basis to the
               extent the bank uses non-Level 1 collateral received from one
               counterparty to secure derivative liability to another counterparty, if
               any decrease in the value of this collateral would affect both collateral
               posting to and by the bank?

               No. Netting of collateral inflows and outflows across counterparties is
               not provided for in LCR40.52 as the impacts of valuation changes (even
               of identical collateral) may be asymmetric across different
               counterparties.

     FAQ4      Assuming that a bank is a net poster of non-Level 1 collateral, can the
               net outflows under LCR40.52 be calculated taking into account any
               additional eligible non-Level 1 collateral that is unencumbered as of
               the date of the LCR or that would become unencumbered as a result of
               the stresses?

               No. The LCR framework provides no basis for separate sub-pools of
               (non-Level 1) HQLA dedicated to specific liquidity needs or for
               considering contingent inflows of collateral.

     FAQ5      Can it be assumed that a bank will post collateral in the most efficient
               manner practicable? For example, if a bank is currently a net poster of
               non-Level 1 collateral (with higher haircuts), it seems appropriate to
               assume that the bank would use its cash or lower-haircut Level 1
               securities first, and not use that cash to purchase additional non-Level
               1 collateral that would have a higher haircut.

               As with any other outflow captured in the LCR, the outflows addressed
               in LCR40.52 add to the bank’s net cash outflow that must be met by
               Level 1 and/or Level 2 assets according to LCR30. No further
               assumptions have to be made in terms of what the bank actually “will
               post”.

     FAQ6      LCR40.52 of the LCR text requires that if a bank has posted a non-Level
               1 asset as collateral to secure its mark-to-market exposure under
               derivatives contracts or other transactions, the bank must hold
               additional stock of HQLA to cater for a potential reduction in the value
               of the collateral to the extent of 20% of the collateral value. Similar

                  references to “other transactions” are also made in LCR40.51 and
                  LCR40.55. Banks have queries on the scope of “other transactions”. Is it
                  the policy intent that LCR40.51, LCR40.52 and LCR40.55 are generally
                  applicable to derivatives transactions only?

                  LCR40.51, LCR40.52 and LCR40.55 are only applicable to derivatives
                  and other transactions not specifically captured in the LCR framework.
                  Thus, they are not applicable to secured funding transactions
                  addressed in LCR40.45 to LCR40.48 and secured lending transactions
                  addressed in LCR40.78 to LCR40.79.


40.53 Increased liquidity needs related to excess non-segregated collateral held by the
      bank that could contractually be called at any time by the counterparty: 100% of
      the non-segregated collateral (ie where the collateral is unencumbered and
      included in the stock of HQLA or where a recall of collateral by the counterparty
      would need to use additional funding) that could contractually be recalled by the
      counterparty because the collateral is in excess of the counterparty’s current
      collateral requirements.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       Do LCR40.51 to LCR40.55 apply in the same way to all derivative
                  instruments, whether over-the-counter or on-exchange, whether
                  cleared or not? In particular, can confirmation be given that margin
                  posted for clearance through a central counterparty (CCP) and held for
                  the benefit of the bank in accordance with the rules of such CCP should
                  be recognised under the logic of these paragraphs, although the point
                  is not addressed explicitly?

                  Unless expressly specified otherwise, the provisions apply generally.
                  Any Level 1 assets in segregated accounts held in a bank’s name by the
                  CCP will be treated in accordance with LCR40.52.


40.54 Increased liquidity needs related to contractually required collateral on
      transactions for which the counterparty has not yet demanded the collateral be
      posted: 100% of the collateral that is contractually due but where the
      counterparty has not yet demanded the posting of such collateral.



       FAQ
       FAQ1        Do LCR40.51 to LCR40.55 apply in the same way to all derivative
                   instruments, whether over-the-counter or on-exchange, whether
                   cleared or not? In particular, can confirmation be given that margin
                   posted for clearance through a central counterparty (CCP) and held for
                   the benefit of the bank in accordance with the rules of such CCP should
                   be recognised under the logic of these paragraphs, although the point
                   is not addressed explicitly?

                   Unless expressly specified otherwise, the provisions apply generally.
                   Any Level 1 assets in segregated accounts held in a bank’s name by the
                   CCP will be treated in accordance with LCR40.52.


40.55 Increased liquidity needs related to contracts that allow collateral substitution
      without the bank's consent to non-HQLA assets: 100% of the amount of non-
      segregated HQLA collateral that can be substituted with non-HQLA. For
      substitution of HQLA with other HQLA of a lower liquidity value, the outflow
      should be measured based on the difference between the LCR haircuts of the
      collateral currently held and the potential substitute collateral. If the substituted
      collateral can be of different liquidity value in the LCR, the outflow must be
      measured based on the potential substitute collateral with the lowest liquidity
      value. HQLA collateral held that remains unencumbered, but is excluded from the
      bank's stock of HQLA due to the operational requirements may be excluded from
      this outflow amount.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Which cash flow assumptions are applied for secured transactions
                   where assets are received on the basis of a collateral pool that is
                   subject to potential collateral substitution? And, does the concept of
                   collateral substitution also apply to inflows for secured borrowing
                   transactions, ie can a bank take an inflow where it has the contractual
                   right to receive HQLA if it was able to pledge available non-HQLA
                   collateral to a secured lender?

                   The risks associated with collateral substitution on secured lending
                   transactions with a residual maturity greater than 30 days should be
                   considered as a contingent outflow in accordance with LCR40.55 of the
                   LCR framework. The contractual right to substitute HQLA collateral for
                   lower -quality or non-HQLA collateral would be a contingent inflow. As
                   such, it is not considered in the LCR in line with LCR40.75.

       FAQ2        Do LCR40.51 to LCR40.55 apply in the same way to all derivative
                   instruments, whether over-the-counter or on-exchange, whether


                  cleared or not? In particular, can confirmation be given that margin
                  posted for clearance through a central counterparty (CCP) and held for
                  the benefit of the bank in accordance with the rules of such CCP should
                  be recognised under the logic of these paragraphs, although the point
                  is not addressed explicitly?

                  Unless expressly specified otherwise, the provisions apply generally.
                  Any Level 1 assets in segregated accounts held in a bank’s name by the
                  CCP will be treated in accordance with LCR40.52.

      FAQ3        Does the outflow factor of 100% refer to the amount of HQLA
                  collateral before or after the application of potential valuation haircuts
                  (eg in the case of Level 2A collateral)?

                  LCR40.55 does not require an outflow for potential collateral
                  substitution that is greater than the liquidity value of the received
                  HQLA collateral in the LCR. The 100% outflow factor refers to the
                  market value of the received collateral that is subject to potential
                  substitution after applying the respective haircut in the LCR.


40.56 Increased liquidity needs related to market valuation changes on derivative or
      other transactions: As market practice requires collateralisation of mark-to-
      market exposures on derivative and other transactions, banks face potentially
      substantial liquidity risk exposures to these valuation changes. Inflows and
      outflows of transactions executed under the same master netting agreement may
      be treated on a net basis. Any outflow generated by increased needs related to
      market valuation changes must be included in the LCR calculated by identifying
      the largest absolute net 30-day collateral flow realised during the preceding 24
      months. The absolute net collateral flow must be based on both realised outflows
      and inflows. Supervisors may adjust the treatment flexibly according to
      circumstances.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        What does “the largest absolute net 30-day collateral flow” refer to?

                   The largest absolute net 30-day collateral flow is the largest
                   aggregated cumulative net collateral outflow or inflow at the end of all
                   30-day periods during the preceding 24 months. For this purpose,
                   banks have to consider all 30-day periods during the preceding 24
                   months. Netting should be considered on a portfolio-level basis. Bank
                   management should understand how collateral moves on a
                   counterparty basis and is encouraged to review the potential outflow at
                   that level. However, the primary mechanism for the “look-back
                   approach” is collateral flows at the portfolio level.

       FAQ2        Should settlement payments (or receipts) made in the context of
                   derivatives structured as "settled-to-market" (STM) be captured in
                   LCR40.56?

                   Yes, if the settlements are made in relation to market valuation
                   changes. The economic cash flows exchanged between parties to STM
                   and non-STM derivatives are identical and therefore the "collateral
                   flows" mentioned in LCR40.56 include payments and receipts which are
                   deemed to settle outstanding exposures from derivatives structured as
                   STM as well.


40.57 Loss of funding on asset-backed securities, covered bonds and other structured
      financing instruments: 100% outflow of funding transactions maturing within the
      30-day period, when these instruments are issued by the bank itself (as this
      assumes that the re-financing market will not exist). This outflow may be offset
      against HQLA that would become unencumbered and available upon the
      maturity of the instrument. Any surplus of the liquidity value of HQLA that would
      become unencumbered over redemption value for the maturing securities may
      be recognised as an inflow under LCR40.93. Any inflows representing Level 2
      HQLA must reflect the market value reduced by, at a minimum, the respective
      LCR haircut.

To the extent that sponsored conduits/special purpose entities are
                   required to be consolidated under liquidity requirements, their assets
                   and liabilities will be taken into account. Supervisors should be aware
                   of other possible sources of liquidity risk beyond that arising from debt
                   maturing within 30 days.



40.58 Loss of funding on asset-backed commercial paper, conduits, securities
      investment vehicles and other such financing facilities: 100% of maturing amount
      and 100% of returnable assets. Banks having structured financing facilities that
      include the issuance of short-term debt instruments, such as asset-backed
      commercial paper, must fully consider the potential liquidity risk arising from
      these structures. These risks include, but are not limited to, the inability to
      refinance maturing debt, and the existence of derivatives or derivative-like
      components contractually written into the documentation associated with the
      structure that would allow the “return” of assets in a financing arrangement, or
      that require the original asset transferor to provide liquidity, effectively ending
      the financing arrangement (“liquidity puts”) within the 30-day period. Where the
      structured financing activities of a bank are conducted through a special purpose
      entity (or SPE, such as a special purpose vehicle, conduit or structured
      investment vehicle), the bank must, in determining the HQLA requirements, look
      through to the maturity of the debt instruments issued by the entity and any
      embedded options in financing arrangements that may potentially trigger the
      “return” of assets or the need for liquidity, irrespective of whether or not the
      special purpose vehicle is consolidated.

                   Potential risk element                          HQLA required

        Debt maturing within the calculation period          100% of maturing amount

        Embedded options in financing arrangements that allow for the return of  assets or potential liquidity support
               100% of the amount of assets that could
             potentially be returned, or the liquidity
                                  required



   An SPE is defined in CRE40.21 as a corporation, trust, or other entity
                    organised for a specific purpose, the activities of which are limited to
                    those appropriate to accomplish the purpose of the SPE, and the
                    structure of which is intended to isolate the SPE from the credit risk of
                    an originator or seller of exposures. SPEs, normally a trust or similar
                    entity, are commonly used as financing vehicles in which exposures are
                    sold to the SPE in exchange for cash or other assets funded by debt
                    issued by the trust.



40.59 Drawdowns on committed credit and liquidity facilities: For the purpose of the
      standard, credit and liquidity facilities are defined as explicit contractual
      agreements or obligations to extend funds at a future date to retail or wholesale
      counterparties. These facilities only include contractually irrevocable (committed)
      or conditionally revocable agreements to extend funds in the future.
       Unconditionally revocable facilities that are unconditionally cancellable by the
       bank (in particular, those without a precondition of a material change in the
       credit condition of the borrower) are excluded from this section and included in
       LCR40.67. These off-balance sheet facilities or funding commitments can have
       long- or short-term maturities, with short-term facilities frequently renewing or
       automatically rolling over. In a stressed environment, it will likely be difficult for
       customers drawing on facilities of any maturity, even short-term maturities, to be
       able to quickly pay back the borrowings. Therefore, all facilities that are assumed
       to be drawn (as outlined in the paragraphs below) must be assumed to remain
       outstanding without repayment, regardless of maturity.

40.60 The currently undrawn portion of these facilities may be calculated net of any
      HQLA eligible for the stock of HQLA, if the HQLA have already been posted as
      collateral by the counterparty to secure the facilities or that are contractually
      obliged to be posted when the counterparty will draw down the facility (eg a
      liquidity facility structured as a repo facility), if the bank is legally entitled and
      operationally capable to re-use the collateral in new cash raising transactions
      once the facility is drawn, and there is no undue correlation between the
      probability of drawing the facility and the market value of the collateral. The
      collateral may be netted against the outstanding amount of the facility to the
      extent that this collateral is not already counted in the stock of HQLA, in line with
      the principle in LCR40.4 that items must not be double-counted.

40.61 A liquidity facility is defined as any committed, undrawn backup facility that
      would be utilised to refinance the debt obligations of a customer in situations
      where such a customer is unable to rollover that debt in financial markets (eg
      pursuant to a commercial paper programme, secured financing transactions,
      obligations to redeem units). The amount of the commitment that must be
      treated as a liquidity facility is the amount of the currently outstanding debt
      issued by the customer (or proportionate share, if a syndicated facility) maturing
      within a 30-day period that is backstopped by the facility. The portion of a
      liquidity facility that is backing debt that does not mature within the 30-day
      window may be excluded from the scope of the definition of a facility. Any
      additional capacity of the facility (ie the remaining commitment) must be treated
      as a committed credit facility with its associated drawdown rate as specified in
      LCR40.64. General working capital facilities for corporate entities (eg revolving
      credit facilities in place for general corporate or working capital purposes) must
      not be classified as liquidity facilities, but as credit facilities.

       FAQ
       FAQ1       Although LCR40.61 explicitly refers to “rollover” of debt, do these
                  liquidity facilities also capture newly issued positions?

                  Yes. A liquidity facility according to LCR40.61 is any type of
                  commitment that backs up market funding needs of the customer.


40.62 Notwithstanding the above, any facilities provided to hedge funds, money market
      funds and special purpose funding vehicles, for example SPEs (as defined in
      LCR40.58) or conduits, or other vehicles used to finance the banks’ own assets,
      must be captured in their entirety as a liquidity facility to other legal entities.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       To what extent should this provision be applied to commercial conduits
                  for clients?

                  Facilities to SPEs and conduits are subject to the 100% drawdown rate
                  of LCR40.64(7). The LCR framework does not provide any other
                  category for these entities independent of their business purpose.


40.63 For that portion of financing programmes that are captured in LCR40.57, LCR40.58
      and LCR40.64 (ie are maturing or have liquidity puts that may be exercised in the
      30-day horizon), banks that are providers of associated liquidity facilities must
      not double count the maturing financing instrument and the liquidity facility for
      consolidated programmes.

40.64 Any contractual loan drawdowns from committed facilities and estimated
      drawdowns from revocable facilities within the 30-day period must be fully
      reflected as outflows.

       (1) Committed credit and liquidity facilities to retail and small business
           customers: banks must assume a 5% drawdown of the undrawn portion of
           these facilities.

       (2) Committed credit facilities to non-financial corporates, sovereigns and
           central banks, PSEs and multilateral development banks: banks must assume
           a 10% drawdown of the undrawn portion of these credit facilities.

       (3) Committed liquidity facilities to non-financial corporates, sovereigns and
           central banks, PSEs and multilateral development banks: banks must assume
           a 30% drawdown of the undrawn portion of these liquidity facilities.



       (4) Committed credit and liquidity facilities extended to banks subject to
           prudential supervision: banks must assume a 40% drawdown of the undrawn
           portion of these facilities.

       (5) Committed credit facilities to other financial institutions, including securities
           firms, insurance companies, fiduciaries, and beneficiaries: banks must assume
           a 40% drawdown of the undrawn portion of these credit facilities.

       (6) Committed liquidity facilities to other financial institutions, including
           securities firms, insurance companies' fiduciaries and beneficiaries: banks
           must assume a 100% drawdown of the undrawn portion of these liquidity
           facilities.

       (7) Committed credit and liquidity facilities to other legal entities (including SPEs
           as defined in LCR40.58, conduits and special purpose vehicles, and other
           entities not included in the prior categories): Banks must assume a 100%
           drawdown of the undrawn portion of these facilities.

 Committed facilities refer to those which are irrevocable.

 The potential liquidity risks associated with the bank's own structured
                   financing facilities must be treated according to LCR40.57 and LCR40.
                   58 (100% of maturing amount and 100% of returnable assets are
                   included as outflows).


40.65 Contractual obligations to extend funds within a 30-day period: Any contractual
      lending obligations to financial institutions, including central banks, not captured
      elsewhere in this standard must be captured here at a 100% outflow rate.

40.66 If the total of all contractual obligations to extend funds to retail and non-
      financial wholesale (eg including small or medium-sized entities and other
      corporates, sovereigns, multilateral development banks and PSEs) clients within
      the next 30 calendar days (not captured in the prior categories) exceeds 50% of
      the total contractual inflows due in the next 30 calendar days from these clients,
      the difference must be reported as a 100% outflow.

40.67 Other contingent funding obligations: (run-off rates at national discretion).
      National supervisors may work with supervised institutions in their jurisdictions to
      determine the liquidity risk impact of these contingent liabilities and the resulting
      stock of HQLA that should accordingly be maintained. Supervisors should
      disclose the run-off rates they assign to each category publicly.



40.68 These contingent funding obligations may be either contractual or non-
      contractual and are not lending commitments. Non-contractual contingent
      funding obligations include associations with, or sponsorship of, products sold or
      services provided that may require the support or extension of funds in the future
      under stressed conditions. Non-contractual obligations may be embedded in
      financial products and instruments sold, sponsored, or originated by the
      institution that can give rise to unplanned balance sheet growth arising from
      support given for reputational risk considerations. These include products and
      instruments for which the customer or holder has specific expectations regarding
      the liquidity and marketability of the product or instrument and for which failure
      to satisfy customer expectations in a commercially reasonable manner would
      likely cause material reputational damage to the institution or otherwise impair
      ongoing viability.

40.69 Some of these contingent funding obligations are explicitly contingent upon a
      credit or other event that is not always related to the liquidity events simulated in
      the stress scenario, but may nevertheless have the potential to cause significant
      liquidity drains in times of stress. For this standard, each supervisor and bank
      should consider which of these “other contingent funding obligations” may
      materialise under the assumed stress events. The potential liquidity exposures to
      these contingent funding obligations should be treated as a nationally
      determined behavioural assumption where it is up to the supervisor to determine
      whether and to what extent these contingent outflows are to be included in the
      LCR. All identified contractual and non-contractual contingent liabilities and their
      assumptions should be reported, along with their related triggers. Supervisors
      and banks should, at a minimum, use historical behaviour in determining
      appropriate outflows.

40.70 Non-contractual contingent funding obligations related to potential liquidity
      draws from joint ventures or minority investments in entities, which are not
      consolidated per LCR10.1, should be captured where there is the expectation that
      the bank will be the main liquidity provider when the entity is in need of liquidity.
      The amount included should be calculated in accordance with the methodology
      agreed by the bank’s supervisor.

40.71 In the case of contingent funding obligations stemming from trade finance
      instruments, national authorities may apply a relatively low run-off rate (eg 5% or
      less). Trade finance instruments consist of trade-related obligations directly
      underpinned by the movement of goods or the provision of services, such as:

       (1) documentary trade letters of credit, documentary and clean collection,
           import bills, and export bills; and

       (2) guarantees directly related to trade finance obligations, such as shipping
           guarantees.



40.72 Lending commitments, such as direct import or export financing for non-financial
      corporate firms, must be excluded from the treatment in LCR40.71 and banks will
      apply the draw-down rates specified in LCR40.64.

40.73 National authorities must determine the run-off rates for the other contingent
      funding obligations listed below in accordance with LCR40.67. Other contingent
      funding obligations include products and instruments such as:

      (1) unconditionally revocable “uncommitted” credit and liquidity facilities;

      (2) guarantees and letters of credit unrelated to trade finance obligations (as
          described in LCR40.71);

      (3) non-contractual obligations such as:

           (a) potential requests for debt repurchases of the bank’s own debt or that
               of related conduits, securities investment vehicles and other such
               financing facilities;

           (b) structured products where customers anticipate ready marketability,
               such as adjustable rate notes and variable-rate demand notes; and

           (c)   managed funds that are marketed with the objective of maintaining a
                 stable value such as money market mutual funds or other types of
                 stable value collective investment funds etc;

      (4) for issuers with an affiliated dealer or market-maker, there may be a need to
          include an amount of the outstanding debt securities (unsecured and
          secured, term as well as short-term) having maturities greater than 30
          calendar days, to cover the potential repurchase of such outstanding
          securities; and

      (5) non-contractual obligations where customer short positions are covered by
          other customers’ collateral: a minimum 50% run-off factor of the contingent
          obligations must be applied where banks have internally matched client
          assets against other clients’ short positions where the collateral does not
          qualify as Level 1 or Level 2, and the bank may be obligated to find
          additional sources of funding for these positions in the event of client
          withdrawals.

       FAQ
       FAQ1       What is the appropriate treatment of using the collateral obtained
                  through a margin loan to cover a customer short position? The margin
                  loan will be a 50% inflow, but will the customer short be reflected by
                  the minimum 50% outflow in LCR40.73 and/or the outflow due to
                  LCR40.46 and LCR40.48? Regarding LCR40.73, how should it be
                  determined whether or not to take a 50% outflow or a greater
                  percentage?

                  LCR40.73 should be applied to quantify the outflow arising from
                  lending out a non-HQLA asset to affect a customer’s short position if
                  this asset is received as collateral to secure another customer’s margin
                  loan. Thus, the 50% inflow from borrowing the assets to secure a
                  margin loan is symmetrical to the 50% outflow for lending these assets
                  to cover another customer’s short position, subject to national
                  discretion.


40.74 Other contractual cash outflows: 100%. Any other contractual cash outflows
      within the next 30 calendar days must be captured in this standard, such as
      outflows to cover unsecured collateral borrowings, uncovered short positions,
      dividends or contractual interest payments. Outflows related to operating costs,
      however, are not included in this standard.



     FAQ
     FAQ1      What is the treatment of inflows and outflows of cash and collateral
               during the next 30 days arising from forward transactions (eg forward
               repos)?

               The following transactions do not have any impact on a bank’s LCR
               and can be ignored:

               - forward repos, forward reverse repos and forward collateral swaps
                 that start and mature within the LCR’s 30-day horizon;

               - forward repos, forward reverse repos and forward collateral swaps
                 that start prior to and mature after the LCR’s 30-day horizon; and

               - all forward sales and forward purchases of HQLA.

               For forward repos, forward reverse repos and forward collateral swaps
               that start within the 30-day horizon and mature beyond the LCR’s 30-
               day horizon, the treatments are as follows.

               - Cash outflows from forward reverse repos (with a binding obligation
                 to accept) count towards “other cash outflows” according to LCR40.
                 74 and should be netted against the market value of the collateral
                 received after deducting the haircut applied to the respective assets
                 in the LCR (15% to Level 2A, 25% to RMBS Level 2B assets, and 50%
                 to other Level 2B assets).

               - Cash inflows from forward repos are “other contractual inflows”
                 according to LCR40.93 and should be netted against the market
                 value of the collateral extended after deducting the haircut applied
                 to the respective assets in the LCR.

               - In case of forward collateral swaps, the net amount between the
                 market values of the assets extended and received after deducting
                 the haircuts applied to the respective assets in the LCR counts
                 towards “other contractual outflows” or “other contractual inflows”
                 depending on which amount is higher.

               Forward repos, forward reverse repos and forward collateral swaps that
               start previous to and mature within the LCR’s 30-day horizon are
               treated like repos, reverse repos and collateral swaps according to
               LCR40.46 to LCR40.48 and LCR40.78 to LCR40.81 respectively.

               Note that HQLA collateral held by a bank on the first day of the LCR
               horizon may count towards the stock of HQLA even if it is sold or
               repoed forward.


               Unsettled sales and purchases of HQLA can be ignored in the LCR. The
               cash flows arising from sales and purchases of non-HQLA that are
               executed but not yet settled at reporting date count towards “other
               cash inflows” and “other cash outflows”.

               Note that any outflows or inflows of HQLA in the next 30 days in the
               context of forward and unsettled transactions are only considered if the
               assets do or will count toward the bank’s stock of HQLA. Outflows and
               inflows of HQLA-type assets that are or will be excluded from the bank’
               s stock of HQLA due to operational requirements are treated like
               outflows or inflows of non-HQLA.

     FAQ2      Other contractual outflow is determined as 100% as per LCR40.74 of
               the LCR framework, while other contractual inflows are subject to
               national discretion as per LCR40.93. Some industry members are
               concerned about the potential asymmetrical treatment between the
               two items with respect to unsettled sales and purchases as addressed in
               LCR40.74 FAQ1. Does this requirement apply broadly to all unsettled
               trades, ie does it also apply to “open” and “failed” trades, or does it
               only apply to forwards? Banks which apply settlement date accounting
               for open trades would not have any “open trades” on their balance
               sheet and therefore this requirement might create an unlevel playing
               field for different accounting frameworks.

               Unsettled transactions are addressed in the second to last paragraph of
               the response to LCR40.74 FAQ1. It refers to any sales or purchases that
               are executed but not yet settled at reporting date and follows the
               approach set out for forward transactions. It captures both “open” and
               “failed” trades if settlement is expected within 30 days irrespective of
               the balance sheet treatment. In doing so, the response to LCR40.74
               FAQ1 allows for a symmetrical treatment by applying “other cash
               outflows” to executed but not yet settled purchases of non-HQLA and,
               subject to national discretion, “other cash inflows” to executed but not
               yet settled sales, while unsettled sales/purchases of HQLA can be
               ignored.

     FAQ3      What is the treatment of Level 1 and Level 2 assets that are lent
               /borrowed without any further offsetting transaction (ie no repo
               /reverse repo or collateral swap) if the assets will be returned or can be
               recalled during the next 30 days? Are these assets eligible HQLA on the
               side of the lender or borrower?

               These assets do not count towards the stock of HQLA for either the
               lender or the borrower. On the side of the borrower, these assets do not


                   enter the LCR calculation. On the lender’s side, these assets count
                   towards the “other contractual inflows” amounting to their market
                   value – in the case of Level 2 assets after haircut.

       FAQ4        Does LCR40.74 FAQ3 apply to assets borrowed/lent on an unsecured
                   basis only and not to secured transactions? Is it correct to interpret that
                   the Basel Committee means “reused” when it uses the wording “further
                   offsetting transaction”?

                   LCR40.74 FAQ3 refers to assets borrowed/lent on an unsecured basis
                   only. The wording “without any further offsetting transaction” means
                   the absence of a corresponding transfer of cash or securities that would
                   secure the securities borrowing/lending, such as in a repo, reverse repo
                   or collateral swap. If the borrower has reused the securities, there
                   would be an “other contractual cash outflow” to cover unsecured
                   collateral borrowings according to LCR40.74.

                   The starting point and focus of LCR40.74 FAQ3 (as well as the response
                   to it) is the HQLA eligibility of the assets on the part of either the
                   borrower or the lender. In this context, it is assumed that the borrower
                   has not reused the assets as this would have made the question of
                   HQLA eligibility obsolete anyway. The reuse of the collateral by the
                   borrower, however, introduces an outflow because the borrower may
                   have to source these securities if the borrowing arrangement is not
                   extended.



Cash inflows
40.75 When considering its available cash inflows, the bank must only include
      contractual inflows (including interest payments) from outstanding exposures
      that are fully performing and for which the bank has no reason to expect a
      default within the 30-day time horizon. Contingent inflows, including facilities
      obtained from a central bank or other party, must not be included in total net
      cash inflows.




       FAQ
       FAQ1        Which cash flow assumptions are applied for secured transactions
                   where assets are received on the basis of a collateral pool that is
                   subject to potential collateral substitution? And, does the concept of
                   collateral substitution also apply to inflows for secured borrowing
                   transactions, ie can a bank take an inflow where it has the contractual
                   right to receive HQLA if it was able to pledge available non-HQLA
                   collateral to a secured lender?

                   The risks associated with collateral substitution on secured lending
                   transactions with a residual maturity greater than 30 days should be
                   considered as a contingent outflow in accordance with LCR40.55. The
                   contractual right to substitute HQLA collateral for lower-quality or non-
                   HQLA collateral would be a contingent inflow. As such, it is not
                   considered in the LCR in line with LCR40.75.


40.76 Banks and supervisors should monitor the concentration of expected inflows
      across wholesale counterparties in the context of banks’ liquidity management in
      order to ensure that their liquidity position is not overly dependent on the arrival
      of expected inflows from one or a limited number of wholesale counterparties.

40.77 In order to prevent banks from relying solely on anticipated inflows to meet their
      liquidity requirement, and also to ensure a minimum level of HQLA holdings, the
      amount of inflows that can offset outflows must be capped at 75% of total
      expected cash outflows as calculated in the standard. This requires that a bank
      must maintain a minimum amount of stock of HQLA equal to 25% of the total
      cash outflows.


Cash inflows – secured lending, including reverse repos and securities
borrowing
40.78 A bank must assume that maturing reverse repurchase or securities borrowing
      agreements secured by Level 1 assets will be rolled-over and will not give rise to
      any cash inflows (0%). Maturing reverse repurchase or securities lending
      agreements secured by Level 2 HQLA must lead to cash inflows equivalent to the
      relevant haircut for the specific assets. A bank is assumed not to roll over
      maturing reverse repurchase or securities borrowing agreements secured by non-
      HQLA assets, and may assume to receive back 100% of the cash related to those
      agreements. Collateralised loans extended to customers for the purpose of taking
      leveraged trading positions (“margin loans”) must also be considered as a form of
      secured lending; however, for this scenario banks must not recognise more than
      50% of contractual inflows from maturing margin loans made against non-HQLA
      collateral. This treatment is in line with the assumptions outlined for secured
      funding in LCR40.45 to LCR40.48 and LCR40.73(5).


       FAQ
       FAQ1       Many margin loans are “overnight” and can be terminated at any time
                  by either side. Others, however, have “term” provisions whereby the
                  bank agrees to make funding available for a given period, but the
                  client is not obliged to draw down on that funding, and where the
                  client has drawn down on the funding, they can repay it at any time.
                  May banks apply LCR40.78 to such margin loans with a contractual
                  maturity beyond 30 days?

                  No, LCR40.78 and the table in LCR40.79 are specific to secured loans
                  with a contractual maturity up to and including 30 days. No inflow can
                  be assumed for funds extended under such “term” provisions that give
                  the client the possibility to repay after more than 30 days.


40.79 As an exception to LCR40.78, if the collateral obtained through reverse repo,
      securities borrowing, or collateral swaps, which matures within the 30-day
      horizon, is re-used (ie rehypothecated) and is used to cover short positions that
      could be extended beyond 30 days, a bank must assume that such reverse repo
      or securities borrowing arrangements will be rolled-over and not give rise to any
      cash inflows, reflecting its need to continue to cover the short position or to re-
      purchase the relevant securities. In these cases, the short position should be
      treated symmetrically and not give rise to any outflows. Short positions include
      both instances where in its "matched book" the bank sold short a security
      outright as part of a trading or hedging strategy and instances where the bank is
      short a security in the "matched" repo book (ie it has borrowed a security for a
       given period and lent the security out for a longer period). Short positions must
       be evaluated at the end of the calculation date; the ability to substitute collateral
       in the transaction creating the short position must not be considered in
       determining the inflow rate of the secured lending transaction.

Maturing secured lending transactions backed by the following asset category
Inflow rate (if collateral is not used to cover short positions)
Inflow rate (if collateral is used to cover short positions)

        Level 1 assets                                0%                              0%

        Level 2A assets                              15%                              0%

        Level 2B assets: eligible RMBS               25%                              0%

        Level 2B assets: all other                   50%                              0%

        Margin lending backed by all                 50%                              0%
        other collateral

        Other collateral                            100%                              0%
     FAQ
     FAQ1      Are client shorts covered by external securities borrowings subject to
               LCR40.79 (under “secured lending, including reverse repos and external
               securities borrowings”) or LCR40.46 (“secured funding run-off”)? Firm
               shorts covered by external securities borrowings are clearly covered by
               LCR40.79, and it seems more logical that client shorts covered by
               external securities borrowings should be as well. However, LCR40.46
               makes references to customer shorts and the treatment is different?

               The treatments of customer shorts versus firm shorts are separate and
               distinct and for this reason are addressed in two separate paragraphs.
               Customer shorts are considered equivalent to other secured financing
               transactions, as the proceeds from the customer’s short sale may be re-
               used by the facilitating bank to finance the purchase or borrowing of
               the shorted security. Contrary to firm short positions, customer short
               positions are initiated and maintained at the discretion of the
               customer, and therefore the availability of this financing may be
               uncertain during a period of stress. These characteristics explain why
               customer shorts are treated in accordance with the roll-off assumption
               in LCR40.48.

     FAQ2      Can you confirm that the exception rule in LCR40.79 only applies
               where the reverse repo has a residual maturity of ≤ 30 days and the
               short position can be extended > 30 days? And, should the reporting
               institution also apply a 0% outflow to such short positions even if the
               contractual or expected residual maturity of the shorts is up to 30 days,
               given that the secured lending transactions covering such shorts are
               assumed to be extended?

               No, the inflow rates in the third column of the table in LCR40.79 apply
               to all reverse repos, securities borrowings or collateral swaps where the
               collateral obtained is used to cover short positions. The reference in the
               first sentence of LCR40.79 to “short positions that could be extended
               beyond 30 days” does not restrict the applicability of the 0% inflow rate
               to the portion of secured lending transactions where the collateral
               obtained covers short positions with a contractual (or otherwise
               expected) residual maturity of up to 30 days. Rather, it is intended to
               point out that the bank must be aware that such short positions may
               be extended, which would require the bank to roll the secured lending
               transaction or to purchase the securities in order to keep the short
               positions covered. In either case, the secured lending transaction would
               not lead to a cash inflow for the bank’s liquidity situation in a way that
               it can be considered in the LCR. For customer shorts, LCR40.79 only
               refers to those that could be extended beyond the 30-day horizon, so
               the reverse repo can be considered to have a maturity within the 30-



                   day LCR time horizon. For firm shorts, LCR40.80 applies a 0% cash
                   inflow rate to the reverse repo, irrespective of the residual maturity, but
                   does not assume any outflow associated with the closure of the firm’s
                   short position.


40.80 In the case of a bank’s short positions, if the short position is being covered by an
      unsecured security borrowing, the bank should assume the unsecured security
      borrowing of collateral from financial market participants would run-off in full,
      leading to a 100% outflow of either cash or HQLA to secure the borrowing, or
      cash to close out the short position by buying back the security. This must be
      recorded as a 100% other contractual outflow according to LCR40.74. If, however,
      the bank’s short position is being covered by a collateralised securities financing
      transaction, the bank must assume the short position will be maintained
      throughout the 30-day period and receive a 0% outflow.

40.81 Despite the rollover assumptions in LCR40.78 and LCR40.79, a bank should
      manage its collateral such that it is able to fulfil obligations to return collateral
      whenever the counterparty decides not to roll-over any reverse repo or securities
      lending transaction. This is especially the case for non-HQLA collateral, since
      such outflows are not captured in the LCR framework. Supervisors should monitor
      the bank's collateral management.


 This is in line with Principle 9 of the Sound Principles.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        Does LCR40.81 of the LCR framework mean to capture specific outflows
                   /inflows or is it rather outlining liquidity risk principles?

                   LCR40.81 does not address specific cash flows. Rather, it calls to mind
                   that a bank should be prepared to return any received collateral as
                   soon as it may be recalled by the provider irrespective of the treatment
                   in the LCR.



Cash inflows – Committed facilities
40.82 No credit facilities, liquidity facilities or other contingent funding facilities that the
      bank holds at other institutions for its own purposes are assumed to be able to
      be drawn. Such facilities must receive a 0% inflow rate, meaning that this scenario
      does not consider inflows from committed credit or liquidity facilities. This is to
      reduce the contagion risk of liquidity shortages at one bank causing shortages at
      other banks and to reflect the risk that other banks may not be in a position to
      honour credit facilities, or may decide to incur the legal and reputational risk
      involved in not honouring the commitment, in order to conserve their own
      liquidity or reduce their exposure to that bank.


Cash inflows – other inflows by counterparty
40.83 For all other types of transactions, either secured or unsecured, the inflow rate
      must be determined by counterparty. In order to reflect the need for a bank to
      conduct ongoing loan origination/roll-over with different types of counterparties,
      even during a time of stress, a set of limits on contractual inflows by counterparty
      type must be applied. Regarding financial institutions, the bank may generally
      assume a complete return of liquidity from such institutions, provided the funds
      are not supporting operational activities as described in LCR40.89. These
      assumptions may cover both loans and other placements (eg non-operational
      deposits).

40.84 When considering loan payments, the bank must only include inflows from fully
      performing loans. Further, inflows must only be taken at the latest possible date,
      based on the contractual rights available to counterparties. For revolving credit
      facilities, a bank must assume that the existing loan is rolled over and that any
      remaining undrawn balances are treated in the same way as a committed facility
      according to LCR40.64.

40.85 Inflows from loans that have no specific maturity (ie have non-defined or open
      maturity) must be excluded; therefore, a bank must not make assumptions as to
      when maturity of such loans would occur. This treatment must also apply to loans
      that can be contractually terminated within 30 days, as any inflows exceeding
      those according the regular amortisation schedule would be “contingent” (in
      terms of a possible cancellation of the loan) in nature. As an exception to this
      approach, banks may include minimum payments of principal, fee or interest
      associated with an open maturity loan, provided that such payments are
      contractually due within 30 days. These minimum payment amounts should be
      captured as inflows at the rates prescribed in LCR40.86 and LCR40.87.



40.86 All payments (including interest payments and instalments) from retail and small
      business customers that are fully performing and contractually due within a 30-
       day horizon may result in inflows. However, banks must assume to continue to
       extend loans to retail and small business customers, at a rate of 50% of
       contractual inflows. This results in an inflow of 50% of the contractual amount.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        What is the treatment in the LCR of unsecured loans in precious metals
                   extended by a bank or deposits in precious metals placed by a bank? Is
                   the treatment for retail and small business customer inflows and other
                   wholesale inflows according to LCR40.86 to LCR40.90 applicable?

                   Unsecured loans in precious metals extended by a bank or deposits in
                   precious metals placed by a bank may be treated according to LCR40.
                   86 to LCR40.90 if the loan or deposit uniquely settles in cash. In the
                   case of physical delivery or any optionality to do so, no inflow should
                   be considered.

                   In deviation from this treatment, jurisdictions may alternatively allow a
                   bank to recognise a cash inflow according to LCR40.86 to LCR40.90 if:

                   - contractual arrangements give the bank the choice between cash
                     settlement physical delivery and

                        o physical delivery is subject to a significant penalty, or
                        o both parties expect cash settlement; and

                   - there are no factors such as market practices or reputational factors
                     that may limit the bank’s ability to settle the loan or deposit in cash
                     (irrespective of whether physical delivery is subject to a significant
                     penalty).

                   Supervisors in such jurisdictions must publicly disclose the treatment
                   should they opt for the alternative treatment.


40.87 All payments (including interest payments and instalments) from wholesale
      customers that are fully performing and contractually due within the 30-day
      horizon may result in inflows. Banks must assume to continue to extend loans to
      wholesale clients, at a rate of 0% of inflows for financial institutions and central
      banks, and 50% for all others, including non-financial corporates, sovereigns,
      multilateral development banks, and PSEs. This results in an inflow percentage of:



       (1) 100% for financial institution and central bank counterparties; and

       (2) 50% for non-financial wholesale counterparties.

40.88 Inflows from securities maturing within 30 days not included in the stock of HQLA
      may be treated in the same category as inflows from financial institutions (ie
      100% inflow). Banks may also recognise in this category inflows from the release
      of balances held in segregated accounts in accordance with regulatory
      requirements for the protection of customer trading assets, provided that these
      segregated balances are maintained in HQLA. This inflow must be calculated in
      line with the treatment of other related outflows and inflows covered in this
      standard. Level 1 and Level 2 assets maturing within 30 days must be included in
      the stock of liquid assets and must not be considered as inflows, provided that
      they meet all operational and definitional requirements as laid out in LCR30.13 to
      LCR30.45. Payments arising from Level 1 and Level 2 assets which settle within 30
      days that do not meet the operational requirements may be considered as
      inflows.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       Can inflows from maturing securities in a collateral pool for covered
                  bonds be considered as inflows?

                  Yes, inflows are not subject to operational requirements. Hence, these
                  inflows are not per se excluded from the LCR even if the maturing
                  securities are (or have been) excluded from the stock of HQLA due to
                  being “encumbered” according to LCR30.16. However, if the matured
                  securities need to be substituted in the collateral pool within the 30-
                  day horizon, an “other outflow” per LCR40.74 should be considered
                  amounting to the liquidity value of these securities in the LCR.



40.89 Deposits held at other financial institutions for operational purposes, as outlined
      in LCR40.26 to LCR40.36, such as for clearing, custody, and cash management
      purposes, must be assumed to stay at those institutions – ie they must receive a
      0% inflow rate, as noted in LCR40.31. The same methodology applied in LCR40.26
      to LCR40.36 for operational deposit outflows should also be applied to determine
      if deposits held at another financial institution are operational deposits and
      receive a 0% inflow. As a general principle if the bank receiving the deposit
      classifies the deposit as operational, the bank placing it should also classify it as
      an operational deposit. Notwithstanding the exclusion of deposit liabilities raised
      from correspondent banking activities from the treatment of operational
      deposits, as described in LCR40.32, deposits placed for the purpose of
      correspondent banking are held for operational purposes and, as such, must
      receive a 0% inflow rate. However, a 100% inflow rate may be applied to the

       amount for which the bank is able to determine that the funds are “excess
       balances” in the sense of LCR40.29 to LCR40.30, ie they are not tied to
       operational purposes and may be withdrawn within 30 days.

40.90 The same treatment applies for deposits held at the centralised institution in a
      cooperative banking network, that are assumed to stay at the centralised
      institution, as outlined in LCR40.37 to LCR40.39; in other words, the depositing
      bank must not count any inflow for these funds – ie they must receive a 0%
      inflow rate.


Cash inflows – other cash inflows
40.91 The sum of all net derivative cash inflows must receive a 100% inflow factor. The
      amounts of derivatives cash inflows and outflows must be calculated in
      accordance with the methodology described in LCR40.49.

40.92 Where derivatives are collateralised by HQLA, cash inflows must be calculated net
      of any corresponding cash or contractual collateral outflows that would result, all
      other things being equal, from contractual obligations for cash or collateral to be
      posted by the bank, given these contractual obligations would reduce the stock
      of HQLA. This is in accordance with the principle that banks must not double-
      count liquidity inflows or outflows.

40.93 Other contractual cash inflows may be included at national discretion. Inflow
      percentages may be determined as appropriate for each type of inflow by
      supervisors in each jurisdiction. Cash inflows related to non-financial revenues are
      not taken into account in the calculation of the net cash outflows for the
      purposes of this standard.


     FAQ
     FAQ1      What is the treatment of inflows and outflows of cash and collateral
               during the next 30 days arising from forward transactions (eg forward
               repos)?

               The following transactions do not have any impact on a bank’s LCR
               and can be ignored:

               - forward repos, forward reverse repos and forward collateral swaps
                 that start and mature within the LCR’s 30-day horizon;

               - forward repos, forward reverse repos and forward collateral swaps
                 that start prior to and mature after the LCR’s 30-day horizon; and

               - all forward sales and forward purchase of HQLA.

               For forward repos, forward reverse repos and forward collateral swaps
               that start within the 30-day horizon and mature beyond the LCR’s 30-
               day horizon, the treatments are as follows.

               - Cash outflows from forward reverse repos (with a binding obligation
                 to accept) count towards “other cash outflows” according to LCR40.
                 74 and should be netted against the market value of the collateral
                 received after deducting the haircut applied to the respective assets
                 in the LCR (15% to Level 2A, 25% to RMBS Level 2B assets, and 50%
                 to other Level 2B assets).

               - Cash inflows from forward repos are “other contractual inflows”
                 according to LCR40.93 and should be netted against the market
                 value of the collateral extended after deducting the haircut applied
                 to the respective assets in the LCR.

               - In case of forward collateral swaps, the net amount between the
                 market values of the assets extended and received after deducting
                 the haircuts applied to the respective assets in the LCR counts
                 towards “other contractual outflows” or “other contractual inflows”
                 depending on which amount is higher.

               Forward repos, forward reverse repos and forward collateral swaps that
               start previous to and mature within the LCR’s 30-day horizon are
               treated like repos, reverse repos and collateral swaps according to
               LCR40.46 to LCR40.48 and LCR40.78 to LCR40.81 respectively.

               Note that HQLA collateral held by a bank on the first day of the LCR
               horizon may count towards the stock of HQLA even if it is sold or
               repoed forward.



               Unsettled sales and purchases of HQLA can be ignored in the LCR. The
               cash flows arising from sales and purchases of non-HQLA that are
               executed but not yet settled at reporting date count towards “other
               cash inflows” and “other cash outflows”.

               Note that any outflows or inflows of HQLA in the next 30 days in the
               context of forward and unsettled transactions are only considered if the
               assets do or will count toward the bank’s stock of HQLA. Outflows and
               inflows of HQLA-type assets that are or will be excluded from the bank’
               s stock of HQLA due to operational requirements are treated like
               outflows or inflows of non-HQLA.

     FAQ2      Other contractual outflow is determined as 100% as per LCR40.74 of
               the LCR framework, while other contractual inflows are subject to
               national discretion as per LCR40.93. Some industry members are
               concerned about the potential asymmetrical treatment between the
               two items with respect to unsettled sales and purchases as addressed in
               LCR40.93 FAQ1. Does this requirement apply broadly to all unsettled
               trades, ie does it also apply to “open” and “failed” trades, or does it
               only apply to forwards? Banks which apply settlement date accounting
               for open trades would not have any “open trades” on their balance
               sheet and therefore this requirement might create an unlevel playing
               field for different accounting frameworks.

               Unsettled transactions are addressed in the second to last paragraph of
               the response to LCR40.93 FAQ1. It refers to any sales or purchases that
               are executed but not yet settled at reporting date and follows the
               approach set out for forward transactions. It captures both “open” and
               “failed” trades if settlement is expected within 30 days irrespective of
               the balance sheet treatment. In doing so, the response to LCR40.93
               FAQ1 allows for a symmetrical treatment by applying “other cash
               outflows” to executed but not yet settled purchases of non-HQLA and,
               subject to national discretion, “other cash inflows” to executed but not
               yet settled sales, while unsettled sales/purchases of HQLA can be
               ignored.

     FAQ3      What is the treatment of Level 1 and Level 2 assets that are lent
               /borrowed without any further offsetting transaction (ie no repo
               /reverse repo or collateral swap) if the assets will be returned or can be
               recalled during the next 30 days? Are these assets eligible HQLA on the
               side of the lender or borrower?

               These assets do not count towards the stock of HQLA for either the
               lender or the borrower. On the side of the borrower, these assets do not




               enter the LCR calculation. On the lender’s side, these assets count
               towards the “other contractual inflows” amounting to their market
               value – in the case of Level 2 assets after haircut.

     FAQ4      Does LCR40.93 FAQ3 apply to assets borrowed/lent on an unsecured
               basis only and not to secured transactions? Is it correct to interpret that
               the Basel Committee means “reused” when it uses the wording “further
               offsetting transaction”?

               LCR40.93 FAQ3 refers to assets borrowed/lent on an unsecured basis
               only. The wording “without any further offsetting transaction” means
               the absence of a corresponding transfer of cash or securities that would
               secure the securities borrowing/lending, such as in a repo, reverse repo
               or collateral swap. If the borrower has reused the securities, there
               would be an “other contractual cash outflow” to cover unsecured
               collateral borrowings according to LCR40.74.

               The starting point and focus of LCR40.93 FAQ3 (as well as the response
               to it) is the HQLA eligibility of the assets on the part of either the
               borrower or the lender. In this context, it is assumed that the borrower
               has not reused the assets as this would have made the question of
               HQLA eligibility obsolete anyway. The reuse of the collateral by the
               borrower, however, introduces an outflow because the borrower may
               have to source these securities if the borrowing arrangement is not
               extended.



                                 LCR90
                                 Transition
                                 This chapter transition requirements for
                                 countries receiving financial support for
                                 macroeconomic and structural reforms.


                                 Version effective as of
                                 15 Dec 2019
                                 First version in format of consolidated framework.




Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                       943/1626
90.1   The minimum Liquidity Coverage Ratio requirement of 100% is effective from 1
       January 2019.

90.2   However, individual countries that are receiving financial support for
       macroeconomic and structural reform purposes may choose a different
       implementation schedule for their national banking systems, consistent with the
       design of their broader economic restructuring programme.




                                 LCR99
                                 Application guidance
                                 This chapter summarises the components of
                                 high-quality liquid assets and the run-off factors
                                 applied to cash outflows and additional
                                 requirements under the Liquidity Coverage Ratio.


99.1   The table below summarises the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR; percentages are
       factors to be multiplied by the total amount of each item).




                                Item                                        Factor

                               Stock of high-quality liquid assets (HQLA)

   1. Level 1 assets
      - Coins and bank notes                                                100%

     - Qualifying marketable securities from sovereigns,
         central banks, public sector entities (PSEs) and
         multilateral development banks

     - Qualifying central bank reserves

     - Domestic sovereign or central bank debt for non-
         0% risk-weighted sovereigns

   2. Level 2 assets (maximum 40% of HQLA)
      Level 2A assets:                                                      85%

     - Sovereign, central bank, multilateral development
         banks and PSE assets qualifying for 20% risk
         weighting

     - Qualifying corporate debt securities rated AA- or
         higher

     - Qualifying covered bonds rated AA- or higher

     Level 2B assets (maximum of 15% of HQLA)

     - Qualifying residential mortgage-backed securities                    75%
         (RMBS)

     - Qualifying corporate debt securities rated between                   50%
         A+ and BBB-

     - Qualifying common equity shares

     - Sovereign, central bank and PSE debt securities
         rated BBB- or higher that do not qualify as a Level
         1 or Level 2A asset.

                               Total value of stock of HQLA

                                            Cash outflows

   1. Retail deposits
      Demand deposits and term deposits (less than 30
      days maturity):

     - Stable deposits (deposit insurance scheme meets additional criteria)                       3%
         



        - Stable deposits                                        5%

        - Less stable retail deposits                            10%

        Term deposits with residual maturity greater than 30 days     0%
       

   2. Unsecured wholesale funding
      Demand deposits and term deposits (less than 30
      days maturity) provided by small business customers:

        - Stable deposits                                        5%

        - Less stable deposits                                   10%

        Operational deposits generated by clearing, custody and cash management activities      25%
        

        - Portion covered by deposit insurance                   5%

        Cooperative banks in an institutional network            25%
        (qualifying deposits with the centralised institution)

        Non-financial corporates, sovereigns, central banks,     40%
        multilateral development banks and PSEs

        - If the entire amount fully covered by deposit insurance scheme        20%
              

        Other legal entity customers                             100%

   3. Secured funding
      - Secured funding transactions with a central bank counterparty or backed by Level 1 assets with any
          counterparty         0%
          

        - Secured funding transactions backed by Level 2A assets, with any counterparty       15%
            

        - Secured funding transactions backed by non-Level 1  or non-Level 2A assets, with domestic sovereigns,
            multilateral development banks, or domestic PSEs
            as a counterparty     25%
           

        - Backed by RMBS eligible for inclusion in Level 2B

        - Backed by other Level 2B assets                        50%

        - All other secured funding transactions                 100%


   4.

   4. Additional requirements
      Liquidity needs (eg collateral calls) related to financing transactions, derivatives and other contracts            3 notch downgrade
      

      Market valuation changes on derivatives transactions        Look-back approach
      (largest absolute net 30-day collateral flows realised
      during the preceding 24 months)

      Valuation changes on non-Level 1 posted collateral securing derivatives               20%
      

      Excess collateral held by a bank related to derivative transactions that could contractually be called at any
      time by its counterparty             100%
      

      Liquidity needs related to collateral contractually due from the reporting bank on derivatives transactions           100%
      

      Increased liquidity needs related to derivative transactions that allow collateral substitution to non-
      HQLA assets                    100%
      

      Asset-backed commercial paper (ABCP), structured  investment vehicles (SIVs), conduits, special purpose
      entities (SPEs) etc:                 100%
     

      - Liabilities from maturing ABCP, SIVs, SPEs etc
           (applied to maturing amounts and returnable
           assets)

      - Asset-backed securities (including covered bonds)
          applied to maturing amounts

      Currently undrawn committed credit and liquidity
      facilities provided to:

      - Retail and small business clients                                 5%

      - Non-financial corporates, sovereigns and central  banks, multilateral development banks and PSEs            10% for credit
         
                                                                   30% for liquidity

      - Banks subject to prudential supervision                          40%

      - Other financial institutions (include securities firms, insurance companies)    40% for credit
          
                                                                   100% for liquidity

      - Other legal entity customers, credit and liquidity facilities              100%
          

                                                                  National discretion

     Other contingent funding liabilities (such as
     guarantees, letters of credit, revocable credit and
     liquidity facilities etc)

     - Trade finance                                            0-5%

     - Customer short positions covered by other                50%
         customers’ collateral

     Any additional contractual outflows                        100%

     Net derivative cash outflows                               100%

     Any other contractual cash outflows                        100%

                                         Total cash outflows

                                               Cash inflows

     Maturing secured lending transactions backed by the
     following collateral:

     Level 1 assets                                             0%

     Level 2A assets                                            15%

     Level 2B assets

     - Eligible RMBS                                            25%

     - Other assets                                             50%

     Margin lending backed by all other collateral              50%

     All other assets                                           100%

     Credit or liquidity facilities provided to the reporting   0%
     bank

     Operational deposits held at other financial institutions (include deposits held at centralised
     institution of network of co-operative banks)             0%
    

     Other inflows by counterparty:

     - Amounts to be received from retail counterparties        50%

     - Amounts to be received from non-financial   wholesale counterparties, from transactions other
        than those listed in above inflow categories              50%
        



     - Amounts to be received from financial institutions and central banks, from transactions other than
        those listed in above inflow categories.        100%
        

     Net derivative cash inflows                                  100%

     Other contractual cash inflows                         National discretion

     Total cash inflows

     Total net cash outflows = Total cash outflows minus
     min [total cash inflows, 75% of gross outflows]

     LCR = Stock of HQLA / Total net cash outflows



                                 NSF
                                 Net stable funding ratio
                                 The net stable funding ratio requires banks to
                                 maintain a stable funding profile in relation to
                                 the composition of their assets and off-balance-
                                 sheet activities.




                                 NSF10
                                 Definitions and applications
                                 This chapter describes the scope of application
                                 for the NSFR calculation and defines the main
                                 terms.


                            Definitions
10.1   The net stable funding ratio (NSFR) consists primarily of internationally agreed-
       upon definitions and calibrations. Some elements, however, remain subject to
       national discretion to reflect jurisdiction-specific conditions. In these cases,
       national discretion should be explicit and clearly outlined in the regulations of
       each jurisdiction.

10.2   Unless otherwise specified, the NSFR definitions mirror those in the liquidity
       coverage ratio (LCR) standard, set out in LCR, and the liquidity monitoring
       metrics, set out in SRP50. All references to LCR definitions in the NSFR refer to
       the definitions in the LCR standard published by the Basel Committee.
       Supervisors who have chosen to implement a more stringent definition in their
       domestic LCR rules than those set out in the Basel Committee LCR standard have
       discretion over whether to apply this stricter definition for the purposes of
       implementing the NSFR requirements in their jurisdiction.

10.3   In particular, and consistent with LCR40.42 and NSF10.1, banks, securities firms,
       insurance companies, fiduciaries (defined in this context as a legal entity that is
       authorised to manage assets on behalf of a third party, including asset
       management entities such as pension funds and other collective investment
       vehicles), and beneficiaries (defined in this context as a legal entity that receives,
       or may become eligible to receive, benefits under a will, insurance policy,
       retirement plan, annuity, trust, or other contract) are considered as financial
       institutions for the application of the NSFR standard.


Scope of application
10.4   The application of the NSFR requirement in this standard follows the scope of
       application set out in SCO10. The NSFR must be applied to all internationally
       active banks on a consolidated basis, but may be used for other banks and on
       any subset of entities of internationally active banks as well to ensure greater
       consistency and a level playing field between domestic and cross-border banks.

10.5   Regardless of the scope of application of the NSFR, in line with Principle 6 as
       outlined in the Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk Management and Supervision,
       a bank should actively monitor and control liquidity risk exposures and funding
       needs at the level of individual legal entities, foreign branches and subsidiaries,
       and the group as a whole, taking into account legal, regulatory and operational
       limitations to the transferability of liquidity.


Exclusions from the NSFR calculation
10.6   A limited national discretion allows derivative transactions with central banks
       arising from the latter’s short-term monetary policy and liquidity operations to be
       excluded from the reporting bank’s NSFR computation and to offset unrealised
       capital gains and losses related to these derivative transactions from available
       stable funding. These transactions include foreign exchange derivatives such as
       foreign exchange swaps, and must have a maturity of six months or less at
       inception. As such, the bank’s NSFR would not change due to entering a short-
       term derivative transaction with its central bank for the purpose of short-term
       monetary policy and liquidity operations.


                                 NSF20
                                 Calculation and reporting
                                 This chapter contains the minimum NSFR
                                 requirement and associated regulatory reporting.


                                
20.1   The net stable funding ratio (NSFR) requires banks to maintain a stable funding
       profile in relation to the composition of their assets and off-balance sheet
       activities. A sustainable funding structure is intended to reduce the likelihood that
       disruptions to a bank’s regular sources of funding will erode its liquidity position
       in a way that would increase the risk of its failure and potentially lead to broader
       systemic stress. The NSFR limits overreliance on short-term wholesale funding,
       encourages better assessment of funding risk across all on- and off-balance sheet
       items, and promotes funding stability.

20.2   The NSFR is defined as the amount of available stable funding relative to the
       amount of required stable funding. This ratio should be equal to at least 100% on
       an ongoing basis. “Available stable funding” is defined as the portion of capital
       and liabilities expected to be reliable over the one-year time horizon considered
       by the NSFR. The amount of stable funding required ("required stable funding")
       of an institution is a function of the liquidity characteristics and residual
       maturities of the various assets held by that institution as well as those of its off-
       balance sheet exposures.




20.3   The NSFR must be reported at least quarterly. The time lag in reporting should
       not surpass the allowable time lag under the Basel capital standards.




                                 NSF30
                                 Available and required stable
                                 funding
                                 This chapter describes how to calculate the
                                 amount of available stable funding provided by
                                 a bank's liabilities and equity and how to
                                 calculate the amount of required stable funding
                                 for a bank's assets and off-balance-sheet
                                 activities.


                                 Introduction
30.1   The amounts of available stable funding (ASF) and required stable funding (RSF)
       specified in the standard are calibrated to reflect the presumed degree of stability
       of liabilities and liquidity of assets.

30.2   The calibration reflects the stability of liabilities across two dimensions:

       (1) Funding tenor: the net stable funding ratio (NSFR) is generally calibrated
           such that longer-term liabilities are assumed to be more stable than short-
           term liabilities.

       (2) Funding type and counterparty: the NSFR is calibrated under the assumption
           that short-term (maturing in less than one year) deposits provided by retail
           customers and funding provided by small business customers are
           behaviourally more stable than wholesale funding of the same maturity from
           other counterparties.

30.3   In determining the appropriate amounts of required stable funding for various
       assets, the following criteria were taken into consideration, recognising the
       potential trade-offs between these criteria:

       (1) Resilient credit creation: the NSFR requires stable funding for some
           proportion of lending to the real economy in order to ensure the continuity
           of this type of intermediation.

       (2) Bank behaviour: the NSFR is calibrated under the assumption that banks may
           seek to roll over a significant proportion of maturing loans to preserve
           customer relationships.

       (3) Asset tenor: the NSFR assumes that some short-dated assets (maturing in
           less than one year) require a smaller proportion of stable funding because
           banks would be able to allow some proportion of those assets to mature
           instead of rolling them over.

       (4) Asset quality and liquidity value: the NSFR assumes that unencumbered,
           high-quality assets that can be securitised or traded, and thus can be readily
           used as collateral to secure additional funding or sold in the market, do not
           need to be wholly financed with stable funding.

30.4   Additional stable funding sources are also required to support at least a small
       portion of the potential calls on liquidity arising from off-balance sheet
       commitments and contingent funding obligations.

Definition of available stable funding
30.5   The amount of ASF is measured based on the broad characteristics of the relative
       stability of an institution’s funding sources, including the contractual maturity of
       its liabilities and the differences in the propensity of different types of funding
       providers to withdraw their funding.

30.6   The amount of ASF must be calculated by first assigning the carrying value of an
       institution’s capital and liabilities to one of five categories as presented below.
       The amount assigned to each category is then multiplied by an ASF factor, and
       the total ASF is the sum of the weighted amounts. Carrying value represents the
       amount at which a liability or equity instrument is recorded before the
       application of any regulatory deductions, filters or other adjustments. As noted in
       NSF10.2, definitions mirror those outlined in the LCR standard, unless otherwise
       specified.

30.7   When determining the maturity of an equity or liability instrument, the bank must
       assume investors redeem call options at the earliest possible date. For funding
       with options exercisable at the bank’s discretion, supervisors should take into
       account reputational factors that may limit a bank’s ability not to exercise the
       option. In particular, where the market expects certain liabilities to be redeemed
       before their legal final maturity date, banks and supervisors should assume such
       behaviour for the purpose of the NSFR and include these liabilities in the
       corresponding ASF category. Along the same lines, when calculating the NSFR,
       options by a bank to extend funding maturity of its obligations (eg soft-bullet
       structures) should generally be assumed not to be exercised when there may be
       reputational concerns. For long-dated liabilities, only the portion of cash flows
       falling at or beyond the six-month and one-year time horizons should be treated
       as having an effective residual maturity of six months or more and one year or
       more, respectively.
This could reflect a case where a bank may imply that it would be
                   subject to funding risk if it did not exercise an option on its own
                   funding.


30.8   Derivative liabilities are calculated first based on the replacement cost for
       derivative contracts (obtained by marking to market) where the contract has a
       negative value. When an eligible bilateral netting contract is in place that meets
       the conditions as specified in CRE52.7, the replacement cost for the set of
       derivative exposures covered by the contract must be the net replacement cost.





30.9
       In calculating NSFR derivative liabilities, collateral posted in the form of variation
       margin in connection with derivative contracts, regardless of the asset type, must
       be deducted from the negative replacement cost amount.


NSFR derivative liabilities = (derivative liabilities) – (total collateral
                   posted as variation margin on derivative liabilities). To the extent that
                   the bank’s accounting framework reflects on balance sheet, in
                   connection with a derivative contract, an asset associated with
                   collateral posted as variation margin that is deducted from the
                   replacement cost amount for purposes of the NSFR, that asset should
                   not be included in the calculation of a bank’s RSF to avoid any double-
                   counting.


30.10 Liabilities and capital instruments receiving a 100% ASF factor comprise:

       (1) the total amount of regulatory capital, before the application of capital
           deductions, as defined in CAP10, excluding the proportion of Tier 2
           instruments with residual maturity of less than one year;

       (2) the total amount of any capital instrument not included in NSF30.10(1) that
           has an effective residual maturity of one year or more, but excluding any
           instruments with explicit or embedded options that, if exercised, would
           reduce the expected maturity to less than one year;

       (3) the total amount of secured and unsecured borrowings and liabilities
           (including term deposits) with effective residual maturities of one year or
           more. Cash flows falling below the one-year horizon but arising from
           liabilities with a final maturity greater than one year do not qualify for the
           100% ASF factor; and

       (4) retail term deposits maturing over one year that cannot be withdrawn early
           without significant penalty.


  Capital instruments reported here should meet all requirements
                   outlined in CAP10, and should only include amounts after transitional
                   arrangements in CAP90 have expired under fully implemented Basel III
                   standards (ie as in 2022).





       FAQ
       FAQ1        What is the treatment in the NSFR of unsecured precious metals
                   liabilities (such as deposits in precious metals received by a bank)? Are
                   the ASF factors for retail deposits and unsecured wholesale funding
                   according to NSF30.10 to NSF30.14 applicable?

                   Yes, on-balance sheet precious metals liabilities should receive the
                   same ASF factors as other on-balance sheet (cash) funding. There is no
                   difference between cash settlement and physical delivery in terms of
                   application of ASF factors.


30.11 Liabilities receiving a 95% ASF factor comprise “stable” (as defined in LCR40.7 to
      LCR40.12) non-maturity (demand) deposits and/or term deposits with residual
      maturities of less than one year,and/or term deposits with residual maturities
      greater than one year that can be withdrawn early without a significant penalty,
      provided by retail and small business customers.


 Retail deposits are defined in LCR40.5. Small business customers are
                   defined in LCR40.23 and LCR40.24.


30.12 Liabilities receiving a 90% ASF factor comprise “less stable” (as defined in LCR40.
      13 to LCR40.15) non-maturity (demand) deposits and/or term deposits with
      residual maturities of less than one year, and/or term deposits with residual
      maturities greater than one year that can be withdrawn early without a significant
      penalty, provided by retail and small business customers.


The treatment of retail and small business deposits follows the
                   definitions provided in the LCR standard and not the run-off rates
                   applied to them in a particular jurisdiction. Thus, retail and small
                   business deposits that are subject to higher (than 5% and 10%) outflow
                   assumptions than those for stable and less stable deposits in the LCR
                   could be treated as stable and less stable, unless a given jurisdiction
                   chooses to apply a more conservative treatment (lower ASF).


30.13 Liabilities receiving a 50% ASF factor comprise:


       (1) funding (secured and unsecured) with a residual maturity of less than one
           year provided by non-financial corporate customers;

       (2) operational deposits (as defined in LCR40.26 to LCR40.36);

       (3) funding with residual maturity of less than one year from sovereigns, public
           sector entities (PSEs), and multilateral and national development banks; and

       (4) other funding (secured and unsecured) not included in the categories above
           with residual maturity between six months to less than one year, including
           funding from central banks and financial institutions.

 Banks should refer to guidance from their supervisors to determine if
                   any national development banks in their jurisdictions or abroad can
                   qualify for this treatment. These entities would likely include banks that
                   provide financing for development projects. Contrary to multilateral
                   development banks, whose membership and operation involve several
                   countries, national development banks typically belong to or are
                   controlled by the state in which they are incorporated.


30.14 Liabilities receiving a 0% ASF factor comprise:

       (1) all other liabilities and equity categories not included in the above
           categories, including other funding with residual maturity of less than six
           months from central banks and financial institutions;

       (2) other liabilities without a stated maturity. This category must include short
           positions and open maturity positions that are not otherwise captured under
           NSF30.10 to NSF30.13. Two exceptions may be recognised for liabilities
           without a stated maturity, which would then be assigned either a 100% ASF
           factor if the effective maturity is one year or greater, or 50%, if the effective
           maturity is between six months and less than one year:

           (a) first, deferred tax liabilities, which should be treated according to the
               nearest possible date on which such liabilities could be realised; and

           (b) second, minority interest, which should be treated according to the term
               of the instrument, usually in perpetuity.

       (3) NSFR derivative liabilities as calculated according to NSF30.8 and NSF30.9
           net of NSFR derivative assets as calculated according to NSF30.23 and NSF30.
           24, if NSFR derivative liabilities are greater than NSFR derivative assets;  and



     (4) “trade date” payables arising from purchases of financial instruments, foreign
         currencies and commodities that

         (a) are expected to settle within the standard settlement cycle or period
             that is customary for the relevant exchange or type of transaction, or

         (b) have failed to, but are still expected to, settle.


 At the discretion of national supervisors, deposits between banks within
                 the same cooperative network maybe excluded from liabilities
                 receiving a 0% ASF provided they are either (a) required by law in
                 some jurisdictions to be placed at the central organisation and are
                 legally constrained within the cooperative bank network as minimum
                 deposit requirements, or (b) in the context of common task sharing and
                 legal, statutory or contractual arrangements, so long as the bank that
                 has received the monies and the bank that has deposited participate in
                 the same institutional network’s mutual protection scheme against
                 illiquidity and insolvency of its members. Such deposits maybe
                 assigned an ASF up to the RSF factor assigned by regulation for the
                 same deposits to the depositing bank, not to exceed 85%.



Definition of required stable funding for assets and off-balance sheet
exposures
30.15 The amount of RSF is measured based on the broad characteristics of the
      liquidity risk profile of an institution’s assets and off-balance-sheet exposures.
      The amount of RSF is calculated by first assigning the carrying value of an
      institution’s assets to the categories listed below. The carrying value of an asset
      item should generally be recorded by following its accounting value, ie net of
      specific provisions, in line with CRE20.1 and the requirements for on-balance
      sheet, non-derivative assets in LEV30. The amount assigned to each category is
      then multiplied by its associated RSF factor, and the total RSF is the sum of the
      weighted amounts added to the amount of off-balance-sheet activity (or
      potential liquidity exposure) multiplied by its associated RSF factor. As noted in
      NSF10.2, definitions mirror those outlined in the LCR standard, unless otherwise
      specified. Regardless of whether a bank uses the internal ratings-based (IRB)
      approach, the standardised approach risk weights in CRE20 must be used to
      determine the NSFR treatment.


 For the purposes of calculating the NSFR, high-quality liquid assets
                   (HQLA) are defined as all HQLA without regard to Liquidity Coverage
                   Ratio (LCR) operational requirements and LCR caps on Level 2 and
                   Level 2B assets that may otherwise limit the ability of some HQLA to be
                   included as eligible HQLA in calculation of the LCR. HQLA are defined
                   in LCR30. Operational requirements are specified in LCR30.13 to LCR30.
                   28.


30.16 Unless explicitly stated otherwise in the NSFR standard, assets must be allocated
      to maturity buckets according to their contractual residual maturity. However, this
      should take into account embedded optionality, such as put or call options, which
      may affect the actual maturity date as described in NSF30.7 and NSF30.17. The
      RSF factors assigned to various types of assets are intended to approximate the
      amount of a particular asset that would have to be funded, either because it will
      be rolled over, or because it could not be monetised through sale or used as
      collateral in a secured borrowing transaction over the course of one year without
      significant expense. Under the standard, such amounts must be supported by
      stable funding.


30.17 Assets must be allocated to the appropriate RSF factor based on their residual
      maturity or liquidity value. When determining the maturity of an instrument, the
      bank must assume investors exercise any option to extend maturity. For assets
      with options to extend exercisable at the bank’s discretion, supervisors should
       take into account reputational factors that may limit a bank’s ability not to
       exercise the option. In particular, where the market expects certain assets to be
       extended in their maturity, banks and supervisors should assume such behaviour
       for the purpose of the NSFR and include these assets in the corresponding RSF
       category. For amortising loans (or other principal repayment claims), the portion
       that comes due within the one-year horizon may be treated in the less-than-one-
       year residual maturity category. Unencumbered loans without a stated final
       maturity, even where the borrower may repay the loan in full and without penalty
       charges at the next rate reset date, are deemed to have an effective residual
       maturity period of more than one year and must be given either a 65% or 85%
       RSF factor depending on their risk weights under the standardised approach for
       credit risk. If there is a contractual provision with a review date at which the bank
       may determine whether a given facility or loan is renewed or not, supervisors may
       authorise, on a case by case basis, banks to use the next review date as the
       maturity date. In doing so, supervisors must consider the incentives created and
       the actual likelihood that such facilities/loans will not be renewed. In particular,
       options by a bank not to renew a given facility should generally be assumed not
       to be exercised when there may be reputational concerns.

This could reflect a case where a bank may imply that it would be
                   subject to funding risk if it did not exercise an option on its own assets.


30.18 In the case of exceptional central bank liquidity absorbing operations, claims on
      central banks may receive a reduced RSF factor. For those operations with a
      residual maturity equal to or greater than six months, the RSF factor must not be
      lower than 5%. When applying a reduced RSF factor, supervisors need to closely
      monitor the ongoing impact on banks’ stable funding positions arising from the
      reduced requirement and take appropriate measures as needed. Also, as further
      specified in NSF30.20, assets that are provided as collateral for exceptional central
      bank liquidity providing operations may receive a reduced RSF factor which must
      not be lower than the RSF factor applied to the equivalent asset that is
      unencumbered. In both cases, supervisors should discuss and agree on the
      appropriate RSF factor with the relevant central bank.



30.19 For purposes of determining its required stable funding, an institution must
      include financial instruments, foreign currencies and commodities for which a
      purchase order has been executed, and exclude financial instruments, foreign

      currencies and commodities for which a sales order has been executed, even if
      such transactions have not been reflected in the balance sheet under a
      settlement-date accounting model, provided that:

      (1) such transactions are not reflected as derivatives or secured financing
          transactions in the institution’s balance sheet, and

      (2) the effects of such transactions will be reflected in the institution’s balance
          sheet when settled.

30.20 Assets on the balance sheet that are encumbered for one year or more must
      receive a 100% RSF factor. Assets encumbered for a period of between six
      months and less than one year that would, if unencumbered, receive an RSF
      factor lower than or equal to 50% must receive a 50% RSF factor. Assets
      encumbered for between six months and less than one year that would, if
      unencumbered, receive an RSF factor higher than 50% must retain that higher
      RSF factor. Where assets have less than six months remaining in the encumbrance
      period, those assets may receive the same RSF factor as an equivalent asset that
      is unencumbered. In addition, for the purposes of calculating the NSFR, assets
      that are encumbered for exceptional central bank liquidity operations may
      receive a reduced RSF factor. Supervisors should discuss and agree on the
      appropriate RSF factor with the relevant central bank, which must not be lower
      than the RSF factor applied to the equivalent asset that is unencumbered.


 Encumbered assets include but are not limited to assets backing
                  securities or covered bonds and assets pledged in securities financing
                  transactions or collateral swaps. “Unencumbered” is defined in LCR30.
                  16.

In general, exceptional central bank liquidity operations are considered
                  to be non-standard, temporary operations conducted by the central
                  bank in order to achieve its mandate in a period of market-wide
                  financial stress and/or exceptional macroeconomic challenges.




     FAQ
     FAQ1      How should the encumbrance treatment be applied to secured lending
               (eg reverse repo) transactions where the collateral received does not
               appear on the bank’s balance sheet, and it has been rehypothecated or
               sold thereby creating a short position?

               The encumbrance treatment should be applied to the on-balance sheet
               receivable to the extent that the transaction cannot mature without the
               bank returning the collateral received to the counterparty. As per
               LCR30.16, for a transaction to be “unencumbered”, it must be “free of
               legal, regulatory, contractual or other restrictions on the ability of the
               bank to liquidate, sell, transfer or assign the asset”. Since the
               liquidation of the cash receivable is contingent on the return of
               collateral that is no longer held by the bank, the receivable should be
               considered as encumbered. When the collateral received from a
               secured funding transaction has been rehypothecated, the receivable
               should be considered encumbered for the term of the rehypothecation
               of the collateral. When the collateral received from a secured funding
               transaction has been sold outright, thereby creating a short position,
               the receivable related to the original secured funding transaction
               should be considered encumbered for the term of the residual maturity
               of this receivable. Thus, the on-balance-sheet receivable should:

               - be treated according to the answer to FAQ2 under NSF30.21 if the
                 remaining period of encumbrance is less than six months (ie it is
                 considered as being unencumbered in the NSFR);

               - be assigned a 50% or higher RSF factor if the remaining period of
                 encumbrance is between six months and less than one year
                 according to NSF30.20; and

               - be assigned a 100% RSF factor if the remaining period of
                 encumbrance is greater than one year according to NSF30.20.

     FAQ2      How should the encumbrance treatment be applied to secured lending
               (eg reverse repo) transactions where the collateral appears on the bank’
               s balance sheet, and it has been rehypothecated or sold, thereby
               creating a short position?

               Collateral received that appears on a bank’s balance sheet and has
               been rehypothecated (eg encumbered to a repo) should be treated as
               encumbered according to NSF30.20. Consequently, the collateral
               received should:



               - be treated as being unencumbered if the remaining period of
                 encumbrance is less than six months according to NSF30.20, and
                 receive the same RSF factor as an equivalent asset that is
                 unencumbered;

               - be assigned a 50% or higher RSF factor if the remaining period of
                 encumbrance is between six months and less than one year
                 according to NSF30.20; and

               - be assigned a 100% RSF factor if the remaining period of
                 encumbrance is greater than one year according to NSF30.20.

               If the collateral has been sold outright, thereby creating a short
               position, the corresponding on-balance-sheet receivable should be
               considered encumbered for the term of the residual maturity of this
               receivable, and receive an RSF factor according to the answer to NSF30.
               20 FAQ1 above.

     FAQ3      Would excess over-collateralisation (OC) (OC in an amount higher
               than the legal OC requirement) in a covered bond collateral pool
               constitute encumbered assets for the purpose of the NSFR? For
               example, should the OC requirements to maintain a particular rating
               imposed by rating agencies be taken into account for determining
               excess OC?

               The treatment of excess OC will depend on the ability of the bank to
               issue additional covered bonds against the collateral or pool of
               collateral, which may depend on the specific characteristics of the
               covered bond issuance programme. Where collateral is posted for the
               specific issuance of covered bonds and it is thus an intrinsic
               characteristic of a particular issuance, then the excess collateral
               committed for the issuance cannot be used to raise additional funding
               or be taken out of the collateral pool without affecting the
               characteristics of the issuance, and must be considered encumbered for
               as long as it remains in the collateral pool.

               If, however, the covered bonds are issued against a collateral pool that
               allows for multiple issuance, subject to supervisory discretion, the
               excess collateral (which would actually represent excess issuance
               capacity) may be treated as unencumbered for the purpose of the
               NSFR, provided it can be withdrawn at the issuer’s discretion without
               any contractual, regulatory, reputational or relevant operational
               impediment (such as a negative impact on the bank’s targeted rating)
               and it can be used to issue more covered bonds or mobilise such
               collateral in any other way (eg by selling outright or securitising). A



                   type of operational impediment that should be taken into account
                   includes those cases where rating agencies set an objective and
                   measureable threshold for OC (ie explicit OC requirements to maintain
                   a minimum rating imposed by rating agencies), and to the extent that
                   not meeting such requirements could materially impact the bank’s
                   targeted rating of the covered bonds, thus impairing the future ability
                   of the institution to issue new covered bonds. In such cases, supervisors
                   may, taking national specificities and other factors into account, specify
                   an OC level below which excess collateral is considered encumbered.


30.21 For secured funding arrangements, use of balance sheet and accounting
      treatments should generally result in banks excluding, from their assets, securities
      which they have borrowed in securities financing transactions (such as reverse
      repos and collateral swaps) where they do not have beneficial ownership. In
      contrast, banks must include securities they have lent in securities financing
      transactions where they retain beneficial ownership. Banks should also not
      include any securities they have received through collateral swaps if those
      securities do not appear on their balance sheets. Where banks have encumbered
      securities in repos or other securities financing transactions, but have retained
      beneficial ownership and those assets remain on the bank’s balance sheet, the
      bank must allocate such securities to the appropriate RSF category.


       FAQ
       FAQ1        What is the treatment in terms of encumbrance for collateral pledged
                   in a repo operation with remaining maturity of one year or greater but
                   where the collateral pledged matures in less than one year?

                   In this case, for the purpose of computing the NSFR, the collateral
                   should be considered encumbered for the term of the repo or secured
                   transaction, even if the actual maturity of the collateral is shorter than
                   one year. This follows because the collateral would have to be replaced
                   once it matures. Thus, the collateral pledged under a transaction
                   maturing beyond one year must be subject to a RSF factor of 100%,
                   regardless of its maturity.

       FAQ2        What is the applicable RSF factor for the amount receivable by a bank
                   under a reverse repo transaction?

                   With the exception of loans (reverse repos) to financial institutions with
                   residual maturity of less than six months secured by Level 1 assets
                   (which receive a 10% RSF factor as per NSF30.27) or by other assets




                   (which receive a 15% RSF factor as per NSF30.28), the treatment for
                   the amount receivable is the same as with any other loan, which will
                   depend on the counterparty and term of the operation.

       FAQ3        What is the treatment for the collateral received?

                   According to NSF30.21, the NSFR treatment of collateral received in a
                   reverse repo is determined by the collateral’s balance sheet and
                   accounting treatments, which should generally result in banks
                   excluding from their assets, securities that they have borrowed in
                   securities financing transactions (such as reverse repos and collateral
                   swaps) which are kept off-balance sheet. In this case, there is no NSFR
                   treatment for the collateral. If, however, the collateral received is kept
                   on-balance sheet, such collateral must receive an RSF factor according
                   to its characteristics (whether it is HQLA, its term, issuer, etc).


30.22 Amounts receivable and payable under these securities financing transactions
      should generally be reported on a gross basis, meaning that the gross amount of
      such receivables and payables should be reported on the RSF side and ASF side,
      respectively. The only exception is that securities financing transactions with a
      single counterparty may be measured on a net basis when calculating the NSFR,
      provided that the netting conditions for securities financing transactions set out
      in LEV30 are met.

30.23 Derivative assets are calculated first based on the replacement cost for derivative
      contracts (obtained by marking to market) where the contract has a positive
      value. When an eligible bilateral netting contract is in place that meets the
      conditions as specified in CRE52.7, the replacement cost for the set of derivative
      exposures covered by the contract must be the net replacement cost.

30.24 In calculating NSFR derivative assets, collateral received in connection with
      derivative contracts must not offset the positive replacement cost amount,
      regardless of whether or not netting is permitted under the bank’s operative
      accounting or risk-based framework, unless it is received in the form of cash
      variation margin and meets the conditions as specified in LEV30 for the cash
      portion of variation margin exchanged between counterparties to be viewed as a
      form of pre-settlement payment. Any remaining balance sheet liability
      associated with variation margin received that does not meet the criteria above
      or initial margin received may not offset derivative assets and should be assigned
      a 0% ASF factor.


  NSFR derivative assets = (derivative assets) – (cash collateral received
                 as variation margin on derivative assets)


     FAQ
     FAQ1        Does the existence of minimum thresholds of transfer amounts for
                 exchange of collateral in derivative contracts automatically preclude
                 such contracts from being considered for the condition of NSF30.24 to
                 allow an offsetting of collateral received (in particular regarding the
                 daily calculation and exchange of variation margins)?

                 No. NSF30.24 refers to LEV30 which states that “variation margin
                 exchanged is the full amount that would be necessary to fully
                 extinguish the mark-to-market exposure of the derivative subject to the
                 threshold and minimum transfer amounts applicable to the
                 counterparty”. The requirement on frequency of calculation and
                 exchange of margins states that “Variation margin is calculated and
                 exchanged on a daily basis based on mark-to-market valuation of
                 derivatives positions”.

     FAQ2        What is the appropriate treatment of initial margin and variation
                 margin if they are not separate?

                 For over-the-counter transactions, any fixed independent amount a
                 bank was contractually required to post at the inception of the
                 derivatives transaction should be considered as initial margin,
                 regardless of whether any of this margin was returned to the bank in
                 the form of variation margin payments. If the initial margin is
                 formulaically defined at a portfolio level, the amount considered as
                 initial margin should reflect this calculated amount as of the NSFR
                 measurement date, even if, for example, the total amount of margin
                 physically posted to the bank’s counterparty is lower because of
                 variation margin payments received. For centrally cleared transactions,
                 the amount of initial margin should reflect the total amount of margin
                 posted (initial margin and variation margin) less any mark-to-market
                 losses on the applicable portfolio of cleared transactions.

     FAQ3        If an on-balance sheet asset is associated with collateral posted as
                 initial margin for purposes of the NSFR, should it be treated as
                 encumbered?

                 To the extent that the bank’s accounting framework reflects on balance
                 sheet, in connection with a derivative contract, an asset associated with
                 collateral posted as initial margin for purposes of the NSFR, that asset


                  should not be counted as an encumbered asset in the calculation of a
                  bank’s RSF to avoid any double-counting.


30.25 Assets assigned a 0% RSF factor comprise:

      (1) coins and banknotes immediately available to meet obligations;

      (2) all central bank reserves (including required reserves and excess reserves);

      (3) all claims on central banks with residual maturities of less than six months;
          and

      (4) "trade date" receivables arising from sales of financial instruments, foreign
          currencies and commodities that

           (a) are expected to settle within the standard settlement cycle or period
               that is customary for the relevant exchange or type of transaction, or

           (b) have failed to, but are still expected to, settle.


 Supervisors may discuss and agree with the relevant central bank on
                  the RSF factor to be assigned to required reserves, based in particular
                  on consideration of whether or not the reserve requirement must be
                  satisfied at all times and thus the extent to which reserve requirements
                  in that jurisdiction exist on a longer-term horizon and therefore require
                  associated stable funding.

  The term “claims” is broader than loans. The term “claims”, for
                  example, also includes central bank bills and the asset account created
                  on banks’ balance sheets by entering into repo transactions with
                  central banks.

      FAQ
      FAQ1        What is the treatment in the NSFR of unsecured loans in precious
                  metals extended by a bank or deposits in precious metals placed by a
                  bank? Is the treatment according to NSF30.25 to NSF30.32 applicable?

                  Yes, on-balance sheet unsecured loans in precious metals extended by
                  a bank or deposits in precious metals placed by a bank that are settled
                  by cash payment should receive the same RSF factors as other (cash)
                  deposits and loans depending on the relevant characteristics such as
                  counterparty type, maturity and encumbrance. Where physical delivery
                  is assumed, loans extended in precious metals and deposits placed in
                  precious metals should be treated like physically traded commodities
                  and are subject to 85% RSF unless the loan (or deposit) is (i) extended
                  to (or placed with) a financial counterparty and has a residual maturity
                  of one year or greater or (ii) encumbered for a period of one year or
                  more or (iii) non-performing, in which cases 100% RSF should be
                  applied. The assumed type of settlement should be determined in
                  accordance with the approach to determine inflows applied in the LCR,
                  and, should jurisdictions opt for the alternative treatment of
                  classification between cash settlement and physical delivery in line
                  with LCR40.86 FAQ1, supervisors in such jurisdictions must publicly
                  disclose these treatments.


30.26 Assets assigned a 5% RSF factor comprise unencumbered Level 1 assets as
      defined in LCR30.41, excluding assets receiving a 0% RSF as specified above, and
      including:

      (1) marketable securities representing claims on or guaranteed by sovereigns,
          central banks, PSEs, the Bank for International Settlements, the International
          Monetary Fund, the European Central Bank and the European Community, or
          multilateral development banks that are assigned a 0% risk weight under
          CRE20; and

      (2) certain non-0% risk-weighted sovereign or central bank debt securities
          (excluding claims on central banks with maturities of less than six months,
          which must receive a 0% RSF) as specified in the LCR standard.




       FAQ
       FAQ1         Should sovereign bonds issued in foreign currencies that are excluded
                    from HQLA according to LCR30.41 get the treatment of HQLA in the
                    NSFR? (This question applies to those sovereign or central bank debt
                    securities issued in foreign currencies which are not computable given
                    that their amount exceeds the bank’s stressed net cash outflows in that
                    currency and country.)

                    Yes, the total amount of these securities can be treated as Level 1 and
                    assigned to the corresponding bucket.


30.27 Assets assigned a 10% RSF factor comprise unencumbered loans to financial
      institutions with residual maturities of less than six months, where the loan is
      secured against Level 1 assets as defined in LCR30.41, and where the bank has
      the ability to freely rehypothecate the received collateral for the life of the loan.

30.28 Assets assigned a 15% RSF factor comprise:

       (1) unencumbered Level 2A assets as defined in LCR30.43, including:

            (a) marketable securities representing claims on or guaranteed by
                sovereigns, central banks, PSEs or multilateral development banks that
                are assigned a 20% risk weight under CRE20; and

            (b) corporate debt securities (including commercial paper) and covered
                bonds with a credit rating equal or equivalent to at least AA–;

       (2) all other unencumbered loans to financial institutions with residual
           maturities of less than six months not included in NSF30.27.

30.29 Assets assigned a 50% RSF factor comprise:

       (1) unencumbered Level 2B assets as defined and subject to the conditions set
           forth in LCR30.45, including:

            (a) residential mortgage-backed securities with a credit rating of at least AA;

            (b) corporate debt securities (including commercial paper) with a credit
                rating of between A+ and BBB–; and

            (c)   exchange-traded common equity shares not issued by financial
                  institutions or their affiliates;

       (2) any HQLA as defined in the LCR that are encumbered for a period of
           between six months and less than one year;




      (3) all loans to financial institutions and central banks with residual maturity of
          between six months and less than one year;

      (4) deposits held at other financial institutions for operational purposes, as
          outlined in LCR40.26 to LCR40.36, that are subject to the 50% ASF factor in
          NSF30.13(2); and

      (5) all other non-HQLA not included in the above categories that have a residual
          maturity of less than one year, for example, loans to non-financial corporate
          clients, loans to retail customers (ie natural persons) and small business
          customers, and loans to sovereigns, national development banks and PSEs.


      FAQ
      FAQ1        Corporates, PSEs and covered bonds with a credit rating equal or
                  equivalent to at least AA– have an RSF of 15%. However, only
                  corporates with a credit rating of between A+ and BBB– have an RSF of
                  50%, while this is not applicable for PSEs and covered bonds. Is this
                  correct?

                  Sovereign and PSEs bonds rated between A+ and BBB– are also eligible
                  as Level 2B assets and, as such, would be subject to an RSF of 50%.
                  This is also the case for corporate securities that would qualify as Level
                  2A assets but whose price has declined more than 10% within a 30-day
                  period, but not over 20%. With respect to covered bonds, only those
                  whose rating is above AA– are eligible as Level 2A assets, and the LCR
                  does not contemplate including covered bonds as Level 2B assets.
                  Those assets that do not qualify as HQLA should be classified according
                  to their maturity.


30.30 Assets assigned a 65% RSF factor comprise:

      (1) unencumbered residential mortgages with a residual maturity of one year or
          more that would qualify for a 35% or lower risk weight under CRE20; and

      (2) other unencumbered loans, including loans to sovereigns, multilateral
          development banks, PSEs and national development banks, not included in
          the above categories, excluding loans to financial institutions, with a residual
          maturity of one year or more that would qualify for a 35% or lower risk
          weight under CRE20.

30.31 Assets assigned an 85% RSF factor comprise:


      (1) cash, securities or other assets posted as initial margin for derivative
          contracts and cash or other assets provided to contribute to the default
          fund of a central counterparty (CCP), in both cases regardless of whether
          recorded on or off the balance sheet. Where securities or other assets posted
          as initial margin for derivative contracts would otherwise receive a higher
          RSF factor, they should retain that higher factor.

      (2) other unencumbered performing loans that do not qualify for the 35% or
          lower risk weight under CRE20 and have residual maturities of one year or
          more, excluding loans to financial institutions;

      (3) unencumbered securities with a remaining maturity of one year or more and
          exchange-traded equities, that are not in default and do not qualify as HQLA
          according to the LCR standard; and

      (4) physical traded commodities, including gold.


Initial margin posted on behalf of a customer, where the bank provided
                  a customer access to a third party (eg a CCP) for the purpose of
                  clearing derivatives, where the transactions are executed in the name
                  of the customer and the bank does not guarantee performance of the
                  third party (eg the CCP), maybe exempt from this requirement.

 Performing loans are considered to be those that are not past due for
                  more than 90 days or otherwise classified as a defaulted exposure
                  under CRE20.


30.32 Assets assigned a 100% RSF factor comprise:

      (1) all assets that are encumbered for a period of one year or more;

      (2) NSFR derivative assets as calculated according to NSF30.23 and NSF30.24
          net of NSFR derivative liabilities as calculated according to NSF30.8 and
          NSF30.9, if NSFR derivative assets are greater than NSFR derivative liabilities;
           


      (3) assets without a stated maturity not included in NSF30.32(1) and NSF30.32(2)
          (including non-maturity reverse repos unless banks can demonstrate to
          supervisors that the non-maturity reverse repo would effectively mature in
          less than one year);



     (4) all other assets not included in the above categories, including non-
         performing loans, loans to financial institutions with a residual maturity of
         one year or more, non-exchange-traded equities, fixed assets, items
         deducted from regulatory capital, retained interest, insurance assets,
         subsidiary interests and defaulted securities; and

     (5) 5% to 20% (depending on national discretion) of all derivative liabilities (ie
         negative replacement cost amounts) as calculated according to NSF30.8 to
         NSF30.9 (before deducting variation margin posted).




     FAQ
     FAQ1        NSF30 Footnote 18 states that NSFR derivative liabilities = (derivative
                 liabilities) – (total collateral posted as variation margin on derivative
                 liabilities). In contrast, NSF30.32(5) requires a 100% RSF factor to be
                 applied to 5% to 20% (depending on national discretion) of derivative
                 liabilities calculated before deducting variation margin posted. Should
                 derivative liabilities be calculated before or after deducting collateral
                 posted as variation margin on the derivative contracts? Additionally,
                 would the 100% RSF factor be applied to the 5% to 20% (depending on
                 national discretion) of derivatives liabilities even in cases when a bank
                 is in a net derivative asset position (ie the net derivative asset is
                 already subject to a 100% RSF factor)?

                 NSFR derivative liabilities, as defined in NSF30.9, should be calculated
                 after deducting collateral posted as variation margin on the derivative
                 contracts. However, for the purpose of NSF30.32(5), the 5% to 20% RSF
                 factor applies to the gross amount of derivative liabilities as defined in
                 NSF30.8, ie before deducting the collateral posted. There are no
                 exceptions to this treatment: thus, the 100% RSF factor is applied to 5%
                 of the gross amount of derivatives liabilities in all cases, and is not
                 dependent on a bank’s net derivative position as described in NSF30.32
                 (2).

     FAQ2        How should derivatives structured as "settled-to-market" be captured?

                 Derivatives structured as "settled-to-market" should be included in the
                 calculation of the 5% to 20% of derivative liabilities specified in NSF30.
                 32(5). The replacement cost amount of these derivatives should be



                    calculated as if no settlement payments and receipts had been made to
                    account for the changes in the value of a derivative transaction or a
                    portfolio of derivative transactions.


30.33 Many potential off-balance sheet liquidity exposures require little direct or
      immediate funding but can lead to significant liquidity drains over a longer time
      horizon. The NSFR assigns an RSF factor to various off-balance sheet activities in
      order to ensure that institutions hold stable funding for the portion of off-
      balance sheet exposures that may be expected to require funding within a one-
      year horizon.

30.34 Consistent with the LCR, the NSFR identifies off-balance-sheet exposure
      categories based broadly on whether the commitment is a credit or liquidity
      facility or some other contingent funding obligation. Table 1 identifies the
      specific types of off-balance-sheet exposures to be assigned to each off-balance
      sheet category and their associated RSF factor.

        Off-balance sheet categories and associated RSF factors                              Table 1


                 RSF factor                                   RSF category

       5% of the currently undrawn portion
Irrevocable and conditionally revocable credit and liquidity facilities to any client

National supervisors may specify the RSF factors based on their national circumstances
Other contingent funding obligations, including products and instruments such as unconditionally revocable credit and liquidity facilities; trade finance-related obligations (including guarantees and letters of credit); guarantees and letters of credit unrelated to trade finance obligations; and non-contractual obligations (such as potential requests for debt repurchases of the bank’s own debt or that of related conduits, securities investment vehicles and other such financing facilities, structured products where customers anticipate ready marketability, such as adjustable rate notes and variable rate demand notes or managed funds that are marketed with the objective of maintaining a stable value).

Interdependent assets and liabilities
30.35 National supervisors have discretion in limited circumstances to determine
      whether certain asset and liability items, on the basis of contractual
      arrangements, are interdependent such that the liability cannot fall due while the
      asset remains on the balance sheet, the principal payment flows from the asset
      cannot be used for something other than repaying the liability, and the liability
      cannot be used to fund other assets. For interdependent items, supervisors may
      adjust RSF and ASF factors so that they are both 0%, subject to the following
      criteria:

       (1) The individual interdependent asset and liability items must be clearly
           identifiable.

       (2) The maturity and principal amount of both the liability and its
           interdependent asset must be the same.

       (3) The bank is acting solely as a pass-through unit to channel the funding
           received (the interdependent liability) into the corresponding interdependent
           asset.

       (4) The counterparties for each pair of interdependent liabilities and assets must
           not be the same.


       FAQ
       FAQ1       Do derivative transactions qualify for the treatment of interdependent
                  assets and liabilities?

                  No. National supervisors have discretion in limited circumstances to
                  determine whether certain asset and liability items, on the basis of
                  contractual arrangements, are interdependent. The strict conditions of
                  NSF30.35 must all be fulfilled to allow this treatment to apply. This
                  treatment, therefore, is not intended to be applied to derivative
                  transactions, since it is rarely the case that derivatives would meet all
                  conditions. Furthermore, the fulfilment of the conditions provided for
                  by NSF30.35 would not automatically lead to the application of the
                  treatment of interdependent assets, as supervisors are still required to
                  consider whether perverse incentives or unintended consequences are
                  being created by approving this treatment for certain operations,
                  before exercising such discretion.





30.36 Before exercising this discretion, supervisors should consider whether perverse
      incentives or unintended consequences are being created.

30.37 The instances where supervisors will exercise the discretion to apply this
      exceptional treatment should be transparent, explicit and clearly outlined in the
      regulations of each jurisdiction, to provide clarity both within the jurisdiction and
      internationally.


                                 NSF99
                                 Definitions and applications
                                 This chapter summarises the available and
                                 required stable funding factors, as well as giving
                                 guidance on the treatment of specific
                                 instruments.


                                Summary of available stable funding and required stable funding factors


99.1   Table 1 below summarises the components of each of the available stable
       funding (ASF) categories and the associated maximum ASF factor to be applied in
       calculating an institution’s total amount of available stable funding under the
       standard.



        Summary of liability categories and associated ASF factors                                Table 1


          ASF factor                            Components of ASF category

            100%         Total regulatory capital as in NSF30.10 (excluding Tier 2 instruments with
                         residual maturity of less than one year)

                         Other capital instruments and liabilities with effective residual maturity of
                         one year or more

             95%         Stable non-maturity (demand) deposits and term deposits with residual
                         maturity of less than one year provided by retail and small business
                         customers

             90%         Less stable non-maturity (demand) deposits and term deposits with
                         residual maturity of less than one year provided by retail and small
                         business customers

             50%         Funding with residual maturity of less than one year provided by non-
                         financial corporate customers

                         Operational deposits

                         Funding with residual maturity of less than one year from sovereigns,
                         public sector entities (PSEs) and multilateral and national development
                         banks

                         Other funding with residual maturity between six months and less than
                         one year not included in the above categories, including funding
                         provided by central banks and financial institutions

              0%         All other liabilities and equity not included in the above categories,
                         including liabilities without a stated maturity (with a specific treatment
                         for deferred tax liabilities and minority interests)

                         Net stable funding ratio (NSFR) derivative liabilities net of NSFR
                         derivative assets if NSFR derivative liabilities are greater than NSFR
                         derivative assets



                         “Trade date” payables arising from purchases of financial instruments,
                         foreign currencies and commodities

                         Liabilities with interdependent assets as in NSF30.35, subject to national
                         discretion



99.2   Table 2 summarises the specific types of assets to be assigned to each asset
       category and their associated required stable funding (RSF) factor.


     Summary of asset categories and associated RSF factors                                  Table 2


       RSF factor                           Components of RSF category

          0%         Coins and banknotes

                     All central bank reserves

                     All claims on central banks with residual maturities of less than six months

                     “Trade date” receivables arising from sales of financial instruments,
                     foreign currencies and commodities

                     Assets with interdependent liabilities as in NSF30.35, subject to national
                     discretion

          5%         Unencumbered Level 1 assets, excluding coins, banknotes and central
                     bank reserves

          10%        Unencumbered loans to financial institutions with residual maturities of
                     less than six months, where the loan is secured against Level 1 assets as
                     defined in LCR30.41, and where the bank has the ability to freely
                     rehypothecate the received collateral for the life of the loan

          15%        All other unencumbered loans to financial institutions with residual
                     maturities of less than six months not included in the above categories

                     Unencumbered Level 2A assets

          50%        Unencumbered Level 2B assets

                     High-quality liquid assets (HQLA) encumbered for a period of six months
                     or more and less than one year

                     Loans to financial institutions and central banks with residual maturities
                     between six months and less than one year

                     Deposits held at other financial institutions for operational purposes

                     All other assets not included in the above categories with residual
                     maturity of less than one year, for example, loans to non-financial
                     corporate clients, loans to retail and small business customers, and loans
                     to sovereigns, national development banks and PSEs

          65%        Unencumbered residential mortgages with a residual maturity of one
                     year or more and with a risk weight of less than or equal to 35% under
                     the Standardised Approach in CRE20

                     Other unencumbered loans, including loans to sovereigns, MDBs, PSEs
                     and national development banks, not included in the above categories,
                     excluding loans to financial institutions, with a residual maturity of one



                       year or more and with a risk weight of less than or equal to 35% under
                       the standardised approach in CRE20

            85%        Cash, securities or other assets posted as initial margin for derivative
                       contracts and cash or other assets provided to contribute to the default
                       fund of a central counterparty

                       Other unencumbered performing loans with risk weights greater than
                       35% under the standardised approach in CRE20 and residual maturities
                       of one year or more, excluding loans to financial institutions

                       Unencumbered securities that are not in default and do not qualify as
                       HQLA with a remaining maturity of one year or more and exchange-
                       traded equities

                       Physical traded commodities, including gold

            100%       All assets that are encumbered for a period of one year or more

                       NSFR derivative assets net of NSFR derivative liabilities if NSFR derivative
                       assets are greater than NSFR derivative liabilities

                       5% to 20% of derivative liabilities as calculated according to NSF30.8

                       Assets without a stated maturity (including non-maturity reverse repos
                       unless banks can demonstrate to supervisors that the non-maturity
                       reverse repo would effectively mature in less than one year)

                       All other assets not included in the above categories, including non-
                       performing loans, loans to financial institutions with a residual maturity of
                       one year or more, non-exchange-traded equities, fixed assets, items
                       deducted from regulatory capital, retained interest, insurance assets,
                       subsidiary interests and defaulted securities



99.3   Table 3 identifies the specific types of off-balance sheet exposures to be assigned
       to each off-balance sheet category and their associated RSF factor.



        Summary of off-balance sheet categories and associated RSF factors                      Table 3

          RSF factor                                     RSF category

          5% of the liquidity facilities to
          currently       
          undrawn
           portion
       Irrevocable and conditionally revocable credit and any client


           National and
          supervisors     
        can specify the
          RSF factors 
      Other contingent funding obligations, including products instruments such as: 
         • Unconditionally revocable credit and liquidity facilities

        based on their national circumstances

      • Trade finance-related obligations (including guarantees and letters
                         of credit)
       
                              • Guarantees and letters of credit unrelated to trade finance
                                  obligations

                              • Non-contractual obligations such as:

                                      − potential requests for debt repurchases of the bank’s own
                                         debt or that of related conduits, securities investment
                                         vehicles and other such financing facilities

                                      − structured products where customers anticipate ready
                                          marketability, such as adjustable rate notes and variable
                                          rate demand notes (VRDNs)

                                      − managed funds that are marketed with the objective of
                                         maintaining a stable value




Guidance on the treatment of specific instruments
99.4   Some loans are only partially secured and are therefore separated into secured
       and unsecured portions with different risk weights under the Basel capital
       framework. The specific characteristics of these portions of loans should be taken
       into account for the calculation of the NSFR: the secured and unsecured portions
       of a loan should each be treated according to its characteristics and assigned the
       corresponding RSF factor. If it is not possible to draw the distinction between the
       secured and unsecured part of the loan, the higher RSF factor must be applied to
       the whole loan.




99.5   Assets that are owned by banks, but segregated to satisfy statutory requirements
       for the protection of customer equity in margined trading accounts, must be
       reported in accordance with the underlying exposure, whether or not the
       segregation requirement is separately classified on a bank’s balance sheet.
       However, those assets must also be treated according to NSF30.20. That is, they
       may be subject to a higher RSF depending on (the term of) encumbrance. The
       (term of) encumbrance should be determined by authorities, taking into account
       whether the institution can freely dispose or exchange such assets and the term
       of the liability to the bank’s customer(s) that generates the segregation
       requirement.

99.6   Non-operational deposits held at other financial institutions must be treated
       equivalently to loans to financial institutions, taking into account the term of the
       deposit.


                                 LEX
                                 Large exposures
                                 Large exposures regulation limits the maximum
                                 loss that a bank could face in the event of a
                                 sudden counterparty failure to a level that does
                                 not endanger the bank's solvency. This standard
                                 requires banks to measure their exposures to a
                                 single counterparty or a group of connected
                                 counterparties and limit the size of large
                                 exposures in relation to their capital.




                                 LEX10
                                 Definitions and application
                                 This chapter describes the scope of the large
                                 exposures framework and the definitions of a
                                 large exposure and connected counterparties.


                                 Rationale and objectives of a large exposures framework
10.1   Throughout history there have been instances of banks failing due to
       concentrated exposures to individual counterparties or groups of connected
       counterparties. Large exposures regulation has been developed as a tool for
       limiting the maximum loss a bank could face in the event of a sudden
       counterparty failure to a level that does not endanger the bank's solvency.

10.2   A large exposures framework complements the Committee's risk-based capital
       standard because the latter is not designed specifically to protect banks from
       large losses resulting from the sudden default of a single counterparty or a group
       of connected counterparties. In particular, the minimum capital requirements
       (Pillar 1) of the Basel risk-based capital framework implicitly assume that a bank
       holds infinitely granular portfolios, ie no form of concentration risk is considered
       in calculating capital requirements. Contrary to this assumption, idiosyncratic risk
       due to large exposures to individual counterparties or groups of connected
       counterparties may be present in banks' portfolios. Although a supervisory review
       process (Pillar 2) concentration risk adjustment could be made to mitigate this
       risk, these adjustments are neither harmonised across jurisdictions, nor designed
       to protect a bank against very large losses from the default of a single
       counterparty or a group of connected counterparties. For this reason, the risk-
       based capital framework is not sufficient to fully mitigate the microprudential risk
       from exposures that are large compared to a bank's capital resources. That
       framework needs to be supplemented with a simple large exposures framework
       that protects banks from traumatic losses caused by the sudden default of an
       individual counterparty or group of connected counterparties. To serve as a
       backstop to risk-based capital requirements, the large exposures framework
       should be designed so that the maximum possible loss a bank could incur if a
       single counterparty or group of connected counterparties were to suddenly fail
       would not endanger the bank's survival as a going concern.


 The market risk standard MAR also explicitly requires that trading book
                   models for specific risk capture concentration risk.



10.3   The treatment of large exposures could also contribute to the stability of the
       financial system in a number of other ways. For example, material losses in one
       systemically important financial institution (SIFI) can trigger concerns about the
       solvency of other SIFIs, with potentially catastrophic consequences for global
       financial stability. There are at least two important channels for this contagion.
       First, investors may be concerned that other SIFIs might have exposures similar to
       those of the failing institution. Second, and more directly, investors may be
       concerned that other SIFIs have direct large exposures to the failing SIFI, in the
       form of either loans or credit guarantees. The Committee is of the view that the
       large exposures framework is a useful tool to mitigate the risk of contagion
       between global systemically important banks, thus supporting global financial
       stability. As a second example, this framework is also seen as a useful tool to
       contribute to strengthening the oversight and regulation of the shadow banking
       system in relation to large exposures, particularly the treatment of exposures to
       funds, securitisation structures and collective investment undertakings.


Scope and level of application
10.4   The large exposures framework is constructed to serve as a backstop and
       complement to the risk-based capital standards. As a consequence, it must apply
       at the same level as the risk-based capital requirements are required to be
       applied following SCO10, ie at every tier within a banking group.

10.5   The large exposures framework is applicable to all internationally active banks. As
       with all other standards issued by the Committee, member jurisdictions have the
       option to set more stringent standards. They also have the option to extend the
       application to a wider range of banks, with the possibility – if they deem it
       necessary – to develop a different approach for banks that usually fall outside the
       scope of the Basel framework.

 For instance, the Committee notes that for these banks that fall outside
                   the scope of application of the Basel framework, there may be a case
                   for recognising physical collateral, which is not recognised in the large
                   exposures framework set out in this document.


10.6   The application of the large exposures framework at the consolidated level
       implies that a bank must consider all exposures to third parties across the
       relevant regulatory consolidation group and compare the aggregate of those
       exposures with the group’s Tier 1 capital.



Scope of counterparties and exemptions
10.7   A bank must consider exposures to any counterparty. The only counterparties
       that are exempted from the framework are sovereigns as defined in LEX30.32.
       LEX30.32 to LEX30.60 sets out the types of counterparties that are exempted from
       the large exposure limit or for which another specific treatment is necessary. Any
       exposure type not included in LEX30.32 to LEX30.60 is subject in all respects to
       the large exposure limit.


Definition of a large exposure
10.8   The sum of all exposure values of a bank to a counterparty or to a group of
       connected counterparties, as defined in LEX10.9 to LEX10.18, must be defined as
       a large exposure if it is equal to or above 10% of the bank’s Tier 1 capital (as
       defined in CAP10.2). The exposure values must be measured as specified in LEX30.


Definition of connected counterparties
10.9   In some cases, a bank may have exposures to a group of counterparties with
       specific relationships or dependencies such that, were one of the counterparties
       to fail, all of the counterparties would very likely fail. A group of this sort, referred
       to in this framework as a group of connected counterparties, must be treated as a
       single counterparty. In this case, the sum of the bank’s exposures to all the
       individual entities included within a group of connected counterparties is subject
       to the large exposure limit and to the regulatory reporting requirements as
       specified in LEX20.1 to LEX20.4.

10.10 Two or more natural or legal persons shall be deemed a group of connected
      counterparties if at least one of the following criteria is satisfied.

       (1) Control relationship: one of the counterparties, directly or indirectly, has
           control over the other(s).

       (2) Economic interdependence: if one of the counterparties were to experience
           financial problems, in particular funding or repayment difficulties, the other
           (s), as a result, would also be likely to encounter funding or repayment
           difficulties.

10.11 Banks must assess the relationship amongst counterparties with reference to
      LEX10.10(1) and LEX10.10(2) above in order to establish the existence of a group
      of connected counterparties.




10.12
        In assessing whether there is a control relationship between counterparties, banks
        must automatically consider that criterion LEX10.10(1) is satisfied if one entity
        owns more than 50% of the voting rights of the other entity.

10.13 In addition, banks must assess connectedness between counterparties based on
      control using the following criteria:

        (1) Voting agreements (eg control of a majority of voting rights pursuant to an
            agreement with other shareholders);

        (2) Significant influence on the appointment or dismissal of an entity’s
            administrative, management or supervisory body, such as the right to
            appoint or remove a majority of members in those bodies, or the fact that a
            majority of members have been appointed solely as a result of the exercise
            of an individual entity’s voting rights;

        (3) Significant influence on senior management, eg an entity has the power,
            pursuant to a contract or otherwise, to exercise a controlling influence over
            the management or policies of another entity (eg through consent rights
            over key decisions).

10.14 Banks are also expected to refer to criteria specified in appropriate internationally
      recognised accounting standards for further qualitative guidance when
      determining control.

10.15 Where control has been established based on any of these criteria, a bank may
      still demonstrate to its supervisor in exceptional cases, eg due to the existence of
      specific circumstances and corporate governance safeguards, that such control
      does not necessarily result in the entities concerned constituting a group of
      connected counterparties.

10.16 In establishing connectedness based on economic interdependence, banks must
      consider, at a minimum, the following qualitative criteria:

        (1) Where 50% or more of one counterparty's gross receipts or gross
            expenditures (on an annual basis) is derived from transactions with the other
            counterparty (eg the owner of a residential/commercial property and the
            tenant who pays a significant part of the rent);

        (2) Where one counterparty has fully or partly guaranteed the exposure of the
            other counterparty, or is liable by other means, and the exposure is so
            significant that the guarantor is likely to default if a claim occurs;

        (3) Where a significant part of one counterparty’s production/output is sold to
            another counterparty, which cannot easily be replaced by other customers;




       (4) When the expected source of funds to repay the loans of both
           counterparties is the same and neither counterparty has another
           independent source of income from which the loan may be serviced and
           fully repaid;

       (5) Where it is likely that the financial problems of one counterparty would
           cause difficulties for the other counterparties in terms of full and timely
           repayment of liabilities;

       (6) Where the insolvency or default of one counterparty is likely to be associated
           with the insolvency or default of the other(s);

       (7) When two or more counterparties rely on the same source for the majority
           of their funding and, in the event of the common provider’s default, an
           alternative provider cannot be found – in this case, the funding problems of
           one counterparty are likely to spread to another due to a one-way or two-
           way dependence on the same main funding source.

10.17 There may, however, be circumstances where some of these criteria do not
      automatically imply an economic dependence that results in two or more
      counterparties being connected. Provided that the bank can demonstrate to its
      supervisor that a counterparty which is economically closely related to another
      counterparty may overcome financial difficulties, or even the second counterparty’
      s default, by finding alternative business partners or funding sources within an
      appropriate time period, the bank does not need to combine these
      counterparties to form a group of connected counterparties.

10.18 There are cases where a thorough investigation of economic interdependencies
      will not be proportionate to the size of the exposures. Therefore, banks are
      expected to identify possible connected counterparties on the basis of economic
      interdependence in all cases where the sum of all exposures to one individual
      counterparty exceeds 5% of Tier 1 capital.



                LEX20
                                 Requirements
                                 This chapter establishes limits on large
                                 exposures, relative to a bank's Tier 1 capital, and
                                 regulatory reporting requirements.

Minimum requirement – the large exposure limit
20.1   The sum of all the exposure values of a bank to a single counterparty or to a
       group of connected counterparties must not be higher than 25% of the bank’s
       Tier 1 capital at all times. However, as explained in LEX40, this figure is set at 15%
       for a global systemically important bank’s (G-SIB’s) exposures to another GSIB.

20.2   The exposures must be measured as specified in LEX30. Tier 1 capital for the
       purpose of the large exposures framework is the Tier 1 capital defined in CAP10.2.

20.3   Breaches of the limit, which must remain the exception, must be communicated
       immediately to the supervisor and must be rapidly rectified.


Regulatory reporting
20.4   Banks must report to the supervisor the exposure values before and after
       application of the credit risk mitigation techniques. Banks must report to the
       supervisor:

       (1) all exposures with values measured as specified in LEX30 equal to or above
           10% of the bank's Tier 1 capital (ie meeting the definition of a large exposure
           in LEX10.8);

       (2) all other exposures with values measured as specified in LEX30 without the
           effect of credit risk mitigation being taken into account equal to or above
           10% of the bank's Tier 1 capital;

       (3) all the exempted exposures with values equal to or above 10% of the bank's
           Tier 1 capital; and

       (4) their largest 20 exposures to counterparties measured as specified in LEX30
           and included in the scope of application, irrespective of the values of these
           exposures relative to the bank's Tier 1 capital.



                                 LEX30
                                 Exposure measurement
                                 This chapter describes the value of exposures to
                                 counterparties used in the large exposures
                                 framework, including those for which a specific
                                 treatment is deemed necessary.


                                General measurement principles
30.1   The exposure values a bank must consider in order to identify large exposures to
       a counterparty are all those exposures defined under the risk-based capital
       framework. It must consider both on- and off-balance sheet exposures included
       in either the banking or trading book and instruments with counterparty credit
       risk under the risk-based capital framework.

30.2   An exposure amount to a counterparty that is deducted from capital must not be
       added to other exposures to that counterparty for the purpose of the large
       exposure limit.
 This general approach does not apply where an exposure is 1,250%
                   risk-weighted. When this is the case, this exposure must be added to
                   any other exposures to the same counterparty and the sum is subject to
                   the large exposure limit, except if this exposure is specifically exempted
                   for other reasons.



Definition of exposure value
30.3   The exposure value must be defined as the accounting value of the exposure. As
       an alternative, a bank may consider the exposure value gross of specific
       provisions and value adjustments


      Net of specific provisions and value adjustments.


30.4   The exposure value for instruments that give rise to counterparty credit risk and
       are not securities financing transactions must be the exposure at default
       according to the standardised approach for counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR).


  See CRE52.


30.5   Banks should calculate the exposure value for their securities financing
       transaction (SFT) exposures applying either:


       (1) the method specified by national supervisors for calculating risk-based
           capital requirements for SFT exposures, so long any such method was
           applied by banks prior to 2019; or

       (2) in jurisdictions that implement the comprehensive approach with supervisory
           haircuts before the Basel Committee’s implementation deadline of 2022, this
           comprehensive approach (set out in the credit risk mitigation requirements
           for the standardised approach for credit risk).

30.6   For the purpose of the large exposures framework, off-balance sheet items will be
       converted into credit exposure equivalents through the use of credit conversion
       factors (CCFs) by applying the CCFs set out for the standardised approach for
       credit risk for risk-based capital requirements, with a floor of 10%.


Eligible credit risk mitigation techniques
30.7   Eligible credit risk mitigation (CRM) techniques for large exposures purposes are
       those that meet the minimum requirements and eligibility criteria for the
       recognition of unfunded credit protection and financial collateral that qualify as
       eligible financial collateral under the standardised approach for risk-based capital
       requirement purposes.


 Unfunded credit protection refers collectively to guarantees and credit
                   derivatives, the treatment of which is described in CRE22.


30.8   Other forms of collateral that are only eligible under the internal-ratings based
       approach in accordance with CRE32.7 (receivables, commercial and residential
       real estate and other collateral) are not eligible to reduce exposure values for
       large exposures purposes.

30.9   A bank must recognise an eligible CRM technique in the calculation of an
       exposure whenever it has used this technique to calculate the risk-based capital
       requirements, and provided it meets the conditions for recognition under the
       large exposures framework.

30.10 In accordance with provisions set out in the risk-based capital framework,
      hedges with maturity mismatches are recognised only when their original
      maturities are equal to or greater than one year and the residual maturity of a
      hedge is not less than three months.



 See CRE22.35 and CRE22.99.


30.11 If there is a maturity mismatch in respect of credit risk mitigants (collateral, on-
      balance sheet netting, guarantees and credit derivatives) recognised in the risk-
      based capital requirement, the adjustment of the credit protection for the
      purpose of calculating large exposures is determined using the same approach as
      in the risk-based capital requirement.

 See CRE22.97 to CRE22.99.


30.12 Where a bank has in place legally enforceable netting arrangements for loans and
      deposits, it may calculate the exposure values for large exposures purposes
      according to the calculation it uses for capital requirements purposes – ie on the
      basis of net credit exposures subject to the conditions set out in the approach to
      on-balance sheet netting in the risk-based capital requirement.

 See CRE22.31, CRE22.82 and CRE22.83.



Recognition of CRM techniques in reduction of original exposure
30.13 A bank must reduce the value of the exposure to the original counterparty by the
      amount of the eligible CRM technique recognised for risk-based capital
      requirements purposes. This recognised amount is:

       (1) the value of the protected portion in the case of unfunded credit protection;

       (2) the value of the portion of claim collateralised by the market value of the
           recognised financial collateral when the bank uses the simple approach for
           risk-based capital requirements purposes;

       (3) the value of the collateral as recognised in the calculation of the
           counterparty credit risk exposure value for any instruments with
           counterparty credit risk, such as over-the-counter derivatives;




       (4) the value of collateral adjusted after applying the required haircuts, in the
           case of financial collateral when the bank applies the comprehensive
           approach. The haircuts used to reduce the collateral amount are the
           supervisory haircuts under the comprehensive approach. Internally
           modelled haircuts must not be used.

 The supervisory haircuts currently in use are described in CRE22.44 to
                   CRE22.47.



Recognition of exposures to CRM providers
30.14 Whenever a bank is required to recognise a reduction of the exposure to the
      original counterparty due to an eligible CRM technique, it must also recognise an
      exposure to the CRM provider. The amount assigned to the CRM provider is the
      amount by which the exposure to the original counterparty is reduced (except in
      the cases defined in LEX30.29).


Calculation of exposure value for trading book positions
30.15 A bank must add any exposures to a single counterparty arising in the trading
      book to any other exposures to that counterparty that lie in the banking book to
      calculate its total exposure to that counterparty.

30.16 The exposures considered in this section correspond to concentration risk
      associated with the default of a single counterparty for exposures included in the
      trading book. Therefore, positions in financial instruments such as bonds and
      equities must be constrained by the large exposure limit, but concentrations in a
      particular commodity or currency need not be.

30.17 The exposure value of straight debt instruments and equities must be defined as
      the accounting value of the exposure (ie the market value of the respective
      instruments).

30.18 Instruments such as swaps, futures, forwards and credit derivatives must be
      converted into positions following the risk-based capital requirements. These
      instruments are decomposed into their individual legs. Only transaction legs
      representing exposures in the scope of the large exposures framework need be
      considered.




 See MAR20.36 to MAR20.38.

 A future on stock X, for example, is decomposed into a long position in
                   stock X and a short position in a risk-free interest rate exposure in the
                   respective funding currency, or a typical interest rate swap is
                   represented by a long position in a fixed and a short position in a
                   floating interest rate exposure or vice versa.


30.19 In the case of credit derivatives that represent sold protection, the exposure to
      the referenced name must be the amount due in the case that the respective
      referenced name triggers the instrument, minus the absolute value of the credit
      protection. For credit-linked notes, the protection seller needs to consider
      positions both in the bond of the note issuer and in the underlying referenced by
      the note. For positions hedged by credit derivatives, see LEX30.25 to LEX30.28.


 In the case that the market value of the credit derivative is positive
                   from the perspective of the protection seller, such a positive market
                   value would also have to be added to the exposure of the protection
                   seller to the protection buyer (counterparty credit risk; see LEX30.4).
                   Such a situation could typically occur if the present value of already
                   agreed but not yet paid periodic premiums exceeds the absolute
                   market value of the credit protection.


30.20 The measures of exposure values of options under this framework differ from the
      exposure value used for risk-based capital requirements. The exposure value
      must be based on the change(s) in option prices that would result from a default
      of the respective underlying instrument. The exposure value for a simple long call
      option would therefore be its market value and for a short put option would be
      equal to the strike price of the option minus its market value. In the case of short
      call or long put options, a default of the underlying would lead to a profit (ie a
      negative exposure) instead of a loss, resulting in an exposure of the option’s
      market value in the former case and equal the strike price of the option minus its
      market value in the latter case. The resulting positions will in all cases be
      aggregated with those from other exposures. After aggregation, negative net
      exposures must be set to zero.




       FAQ
       FAQ1        Is the measurement of exposure values of options measured according
                   to LEX30.20 different from the gross jump-to-default risk positions
                   measurement of options with a fixed 100% LGD as described in the
                   market risk standard applicable from 2022?

                   No. The exposure amount of options measured according to LEX30.20
                   is equivalent to the exposure amount measured according to the
                   market risk standard which will take effect on 1 January 2022.


30.21 Exposure values of banks' investments in transactions (ie index positions,
      securitisations, hedge funds or investment funds) must be calculated applying the
      same rules as for similar instruments in the banking book (see LEX30.42 to LEX30.
      54). Hence, the amount invested in a particular structure may be assigned to the
      structure itself, defined as a distinct counterparty, to the counterparties
      corresponding to the underlying assets, or to the unknown client, following the
      rules described in LEX30.42 to LEX30.47).

30.22 Covered bonds held in the trading book are subject to the treatment described in
      LEX30.38 to LEX30.41.


Offsetting long and short positions in the trading book
30.23 Banks may offset long and short positions in the same issue (two issues are
      defined as the same if the issuer, coupon, currency and maturity are identical).
      Consequently, banks may consider a net position in a specific issue for the
      purpose of calculating a bank's exposure to a particular counterparty.

30.24 Positions in different issues from the same counterparty may be offset only when
      the short position is junior to the long position, or if the positions are of the same
      seniority.

30.25 Similarly, for positions hedged by credit derivatives, the hedge may be
      recognised provided the underlying of the hedge and the position hedged fulfil
      the provision of LEX30.24 (the short position is junior or of equivalent seniority to
      the long position).

30.26 In order to determine the relative seniority of positions, securities may be
      allocated into broad buckets of degrees of seniority (for example, "Equity",
      "Subordinated Debt" and "Senior Debt").


30.27



        For those banks that find it excessively burdensome to allocate securities to
        different buckets based on relative seniority, they may recognise no offsetting of
        long and short positions in different issues relating to the same counterparty in
        calculating exposures.

30.28 In addition, in the case of positions hedged by credit derivatives, any reduction in
      exposure to the original counterparty will correspond to a new exposure to the
      credit protection provider, following the principles underlying the substitution
      approach stated in LEX30.14, except in the case described in LEX30.29.

30.29 When the credit protection takes the form of a credit default swap (CDS) and
      either the CDS provider or the referenced entity is not a financial entity, the
      amount to be assigned to the credit protection provider is not the amount by
      which the exposure to the original counterparty is reduced but, instead, the
      counterparty credit risk exposure value calculated according to the SA-CCR. For
      the purposes of this paragraph, financial entities comprise:

        (1) regulated financial institutions, defined as a parent and its subsidiaries where
            any substantial legal entity in the consolidated group is supervised by a
            regulator that imposes prudential requirements consistent with international
            norms. These include, but are not limited to, prudentially regulated insurance
            companies, broker/dealers, banks, thrifts and futures commission merchants;
            and

        (2) unregulated financial institutions, defined as legal entities whose main
            business includes: the management of financial assets, lending, factoring,
            leasing, provision of credit enhancements, securitisation, investments,
            financial custody, central counterparty services, proprietary trading and other
            financial services activities identified by supervisors.

  See CRE52.


30.30 Netting across the banking and trading books is not permitted.

30.31 When the result of the offsetting is a net short position with a single
      counterparty, this net exposure need not be considered as an exposure for large
      exposure purposes (see LEX30.16).



Sovereign exposures and entities connected with sovereigns
30.32 As set out in LEX10.7, banks' exposures to sovereigns and their central banks as
      set out in CRE20.4 to CRE20.7 are exempted. This exemption also applies to
      public sector entities treated as sovereigns according to CRE20. Any portion of an
      exposure guaranteed by, or secured by financial instruments issued by,
      sovereigns would be similarly excluded from the scope of this framework to the
      extent that the eligibility criteria for recognition of the credit risk mitigation are
      met.

30.33 Where two (or more) entities that are outside the scope of the sovereign
      exemption are controlled by or economically dependent on an entity that falls
      within the scope of the sovereign exemption defined in LEX30.32, and are
      otherwise not connected, those entities need not be deemed to constitute a
      group of connected counterparties (pursuant to LEX10.9 to LEX10.18).

30.34 However, as specified in LEX20.4, a bank must report exposures subject to the
      sovereign exemption if these exposures meet the criteria for definition as a large
      exposure (see LEX10.8).

30.35 In addition, if a bank has an exposure to an exempted entity which is hedged by a
      credit derivative, the bank will have to recognise an exposure to the counterparty
      providing the credit protection as prescribed in LEX30.14 and LEX30.29,
      notwithstanding the fact that the original exposure is exempted.


Interbank exposures
30.36 To avoid disturbing the payment and settlement processes, intraday interbank
      exposures are not subject to the large exposures framework, either for reporting
      purposes or for application of the large exposure limit.

30.37 In stressed circumstances, supervisors may have to accept a breach of an
      interbank limit ex post, in order to help ensure stability in the interbank market.



Covered bonds
30.38 Covered bonds are bonds issued by a bank or mortgage institution and are
      subject by law to special public supervision designed to protect bond holders.
      Proceeds deriving from the issue of these bonds must be invested in conformity
      with the law in assets which, during the whole period of the validity of the bonds,
      are capable of covering claims attached to the bonds and which, in the event of
      the failure of the issuer, would be used on a priority basis for the reimbursement
      of the principal and payment of the accrued interest.

30.39 A covered bond satisfying the conditions set out in LEX30.40 may be assigned an
      exposure value of no less than 20% of the nominal value of the bank's covered
      bond holding. Other covered bonds must be assigned an exposure value equal to
      100% of the nominal value of the bank's covered bond holding. The counterparty
      to which the exposure value is assigned is the issuing bank.

30.40 To be eligible to be assigned an exposure value of less than 100%, a covered
      bond must satisfy all the following conditions:

       (1) it must meet the general definition set out in LEX30.38;

       (2) the pool of underlying assets must exclusively consist of:

           (a) claims on, or guaranteed by, sovereigns, their central banks, public
               sector entities or multilateral development banks;

           (b) claims secured by mortgages on residential real estate that would
               qualify for a 35% or lower risk weight under CRE20 and have a loan-to-
               value ratio of 80% or lower; and/or

           (c)   claims secured by commercial real estate that would qualify for the
                 100% or lower risk-weight under CRE20 and with a loan-to-value ratio
                 of 60% or lower;



       (3) The nominal value of the pool of assets assigned to the covered bond
           instrument(s) by its issuer should exceed its nominal outstanding value by at
           least 10%. The value of the pool of assets for this purpose does not need to
           be that required by the legislative framework. However, if the legislative
           framework does not stipulate a requirement of at least 10%, the issuing bank
           needs to publicly disclose on a regular basis that their cover pool meets the
           10% requirement in practice. In addition to the primary assets listed in LEX30.
           40(2), the additional collateral may include substitution assets (cash or short
           term liquid and secure assets held in substitution of the primary assets to




           top up the cover pool for management purposes) and derivatives entered
           into for the purposes of hedging the risks arising in the covered bond
           programme.

30.41 In order to calculate the required maximum loan-to-value ratio for residential real
      estate and commercial real estate refered to in LEX30.40, the operational
      requirements included in CRE36.127 regarding the objective market value of
      collateral and the frequent revaluation must be used. The conditions set out in
      LEX30.40 must be satisfied at the inception of the covered bond and throughout
      its remaining maturity.


Collective investment undertakings, securitisation vehicles and other
structures
30.42 Banks must consider exposures even when a structure lies between the bank and
      the exposures, that is, even when the bank invests in structures through an entity
      which itself has exposures to assets (hereafter referred to as the "underlying
      assets"). Banks must assign the exposure amount, ie the amount invested in a
      particular structure, to specific counterparties following the approach described
      below. Such structures include funds, securitisations and other structures with
      underlying assets.

30.43 A bank may assign the exposure amount to the structure itself, defined as a
      distinct counterparty, if it can demonstrate that the bank's exposure amount to
      each underlying asset of the structure is smaller than 0.25% of its Tier 1 capital,
      considering only those exposures to underlying assets that result from the
      investment in the structure itself and using the exposure value calculated
      according to LEX30.49 and LEX30.50. In this case, a bank is not required to look
      through the structure to identify the underlying assets.



  By definition, this required test will be passed if the bank’s whole
                   investment in a structure is below 0.25% of its Tier 1 capital.


30.44 A bank must look through the structure to identify those underlying assets for
      which the underlying exposure value is equal to or above 0.25% of its Tier 1
      capital. In this case, the counterparty corresponding to each of the underlying
      assets must be identified so that these underlying exposures can be added to any
      other direct or indirect exposure to the same counterparty. The bank's exposure
      amount to the underlying assets that are below 0.25% of the bank's Tier 1 capital
      may be assigned to the structure itself (ie partial look-through is permitted).

30.45 If a bank is unable to identify the underlying assets of a structure:

       (1) where the total amount of its exposure does not exceed 0.25% of its Tier 1
           capital, the bank must assign the total exposure amount of its investment to
           the structure;

       (2) otherwise, it must assign this total exposure amount to the unknown client.

30.46 The bank must aggregate all unknown exposures as if they related to a single
      counterparty (the unknown client), to which the large exposure limit would apply.

30.47 When the look-through approach (LTA) is not required according to LEX30.43, a
      bank must nevertheless be able to demonstrate that regulatory arbitrage
      considerations have not influenced the decision whether to look through or not -
      eg that the bank has not circumvented the large exposure limit by investing in
      several individually immaterial transactions with identical underlying assets.

30.48 If the LTA need not be applied, a bank's exposure to the structure must be the
      nominal amount it invests in the structure.

30.49 When the LTA is required according to the paragraphs above, the exposure value
      assigned to a counterparty is equal to the pro rata share that the bank holds in
      the structure multiplied by the value of the underlying asset in the structure.
      Thus, a bank holding a 1% share of a structure that invests in 20 assets each with
      a value of 5 must assign an exposure of 0.05 to each of the counterparties. An
      exposure to a counterparty must be added to any other direct or indirect
      exposures the bank has to that counterparty.

30.50 When the LTA is required according to the paragraphs above, the exposure value
      to a counterparty is measured for each tranche within the structure, assuming a
      pro rata distribution of losses amongst investors in a single tranche. To compute
      the exposure value to the underlying asset, a bank must:



       (1) first, consider the lower of the value of the tranche in which the bank invests
           and the nominal value of each underlying asset included in the underlying
           portfolio of assets

       (2) second, apply the pro rata share of the bank's investment in the tranche to
           the value determined in the first step above.

30.51 Banks must identify third parties that may constitute an additional risk factor
      inherent in a structure itself rather than in the underlying assets. Such a third
      party could be a risk factor for more than one structure that a bank invests in.
      Examples of roles played by third parties include originator, fund manager,
      liquidity provider and credit protection provider.

30.52 The identification of an additional risk factor has two implications.

       (1) The first implication is that banks must connect their investments in those
           structures with a common risk factor to form a group of connected
           counterparties. In such cases, the manager would be regarded as a distinct
           counterparty so that the sum of a bank's investments in all of the funds
           managed by this manager would be subject to the large exposure limit, with
           the exposure value being the total value of the different investments. But in
           other cases, the identity of the manager may not comprise an additional risk
           factor - for example, if the legal framework governing the regulation of
           particular funds requires separation between the legal entity that manages
           the fund and the legal entity that has custody of the fund's assets. In the
           case of structured finance products, the liquidity provider or sponsor of
           short-term programmes (asset-backed commercial paper conduits and
           structured investment vehicles) may warrant consideration as an additional
           risk factor (with the exposure value being the amount invested). Similarly, in
           synthetic deals, the protection providers (sellers of protection by means of
           CDS/guarantees) may be an additional source of risk and a common factor
           for interconnecting different structures (in this case, the exposure value
           would correspond to the percentage value of the underlying portfolio).



       (2) The second implication is that banks may add their investments in a set of
           structures associated with a third party that constitutes a common risk factor
           to other exposures (such as a loan) it has to that third party. Whether the
           exposures to such structures must be added to any other exposures to the
           third party would again depend on a case-by-case consideration of the
           specific features of the structure and on the role of the third party. In the
           example of the fund manager, adding together the exposures may not be
           necessary because potentially fraudulent behaviour may not necessarily
           affect the repayment of a loan. The assessment may be different where the
           risk to the value of investments underlying the structures arises in the event
           of a third-party default. For example, in the case of a credit protection
           provider, the source of the additional risk for the bank investing in a
           structure is the default of the credit protection provider. The bank must add
           the investment in the structure to the direct exposures to the credit
           protection provider since both exposures might crystallise into losses in the
           event that the protection provider defaults (ignoring the covered part of the
           exposures may lead to the undesirable situation of a high concentration risk
           exposure to issuers of collateral or providers of credit protection).

30.53 It is conceivable that a bank may consider multiple third parties to be potential
      drivers of additional risk. In this case, the bank must assign the exposure resulting
      from the investment in the relevant structures to each of the third parties.

30.54 The requirement set out in LEX30.48 to recognise a structural risk inherent in the
      structure instead of the risk stemming from the underlying exposures is
      independent of whatever the general assessment of additional risks concludes.


Exposures to central counterparties
30.55 Banks' exposures to qualifying central counterparties (QCCPs) related to
      clearing activities are exempted from the large exposures framework. However,
      these exposures are subject to the regulatory reporting requirements as defined
      in LEX20.4.
The definition of QCCP for large exposures purposes is the same as
                  that used for risk-based capital requirement purposes. A QCCP is an
                  entity that is licensed to operate as a central counterparty (CCP)
                  (including a license granted by way of confirming an exemption), and
                  is permitted by the appropriate regulator/overseer to operate as such
                  with respect to the products offered. This is subject to the provision that
                  the CCP is based and prudentially supervised in a jurisdiction where
                  the relevant regulator/overseer has established, and publicly indicated
                  that it applies to the CCP on an ongoing basis, domestic rules and
                  regulations that are consistent with the Committee on Payment and
                  Financial Infrastructure and International Organization of Securities
                  Commissions’ Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures.


30.56 In the case of non-QCCPs, banks must measure their exposure as a sum of both
      the clearing exposures described in LEX30.58 and the non-clearing exposures
      described in LEX30.60, and must respect the general large exposure limit of 25%
      of the Tier 1 capital.

30.57 The concept of connected counterparties described in LEX10.9 to LEX10.18 does
      not apply in the context of exposure to central counterparties (CCPs) that are
      specifically related to clearing activities.



       FAQ
       FAQ1        Could you explain how to aggregate exposures to a CCP when the
                   bank has both exposures related to clearing and exposures unrelated to
                   clearing towards the CCP with an example?

                   According to LEX30.57, clearing exposures to CCPs are not subject to
                   the concept of connected counterparties described in LEX10.9 to LEX10.
                   18, whereas non-clearing exposures are subject to the concept.
                   Therefore, banks must separately measure and report to their
                   supervisors clearing and non-clearing exposures to CCPs and, for the
                   latter, to check whether the CCP is connected to other counterparties
                   by meeting either the control relationship or the economic
                   interdependence criteria.

                   As an example, if a bank has exposures to a QCCP for a total of 100
                   made up of 50 trade exposures, 10 default fund contribution and 40
                   liquidity line, it should report 60 under exposures related to clearing.
                   For the other 40, it should check whether the QCCP is connected to
                   other of its counterparties, including other CCPs. Assuming that the
                   QCCP is also part of a group of connected counterparties, the bank
                   would have to add this 40 from liquidity line to other exposures to
                   counterparties in the same group. The sum of these exposures will be
                   subject to the 25% large exposure limit.


30.58 Banks must identify exposures to a CCP related to clearing activities and sum
      together these exposures. Exposures related to clearing activities are listed in the
      table below together with the exposure value to be used:


       Exposures related to clearing activities                                            Table 1


             Type of exposure                                 Exposure value

       Trade exposures                  The exposure value of trade exposures must be calculated using the exposure measures prescribed in other parts of
 this framework for the respective type of exposures (eg
                                        using the SA-CCR for derivative exposures).

       Segregated initial margin        The exposure value is zero.

       Non-segregated initial margin           The exposure value is the nominal amount of initial margin
                                 posted.

       Pre-funded default fund          Nominal amount of the funded contribution.
       contributions


       Unfunded default fund  contributions           The exposure value is zero.
      

       Equity stakes                    The exposure value is the nominal amount.



When the initial margin (IM) posted is bankruptcy-remote from the
                   CCP – in the sense that it is segregated from the CCP’s own accounts,
                   eg when the IM is held by a third-party custodian – this amount cannot
                   be lost by the bank if the CCP defaults; therefore, the IM posted by the
                   bank can be exempted from the large exposure limit.

 The exposure value for pre-funded default fund contributions may
                   need to be revised if applied to QCCPs and not only to non-QCCPs.

  If equity stakes are deducted from the level of capital on which the
                   large exposure limit is based, such exposures must be excluded from
                   the definition of an exposure to a CCP.


30.59 Regarding exposures subject to clearing services (the bank acting as a clearing
      member or being a client of a clearing member), the bank must determine the
      counterparty to which exposures must be assigned by applying the provisions of
      the risk-based capital requirements.



 See CRE54.


30.60 Other types of exposures that are not directly related to clearing services
      provided by the CCP, such as funding facilities, credit facilities, guarantees etc,
      must be measured according to the rules set out in this chapter of this
      framework, as for any other type of counterparty. These exposures will be added
      together and be subjected to the large exposure limit.


                                 LEX40
                                 Large exposure rules for
                                 global systemically important
                                 banks
                                 This chapter describes the tighter limits applying
                                 to exposures between global systemically
                                 important banks.


                                 40.1   The large exposure limit applied to a global systemically important bank’s (G-SIB’
       s) exposure to another G-SIB is set at 15% of Tier 1 capital. The limit applies to G-
       SIBs as identified by the Basel Committee (see SCO40) and published annually by
       the Financial Stability Board (FSB). When a bank becomes a G-SIB, it and other G-
       SIBs must apply the 15% limit within 12 months of this event, which is the same
       time frame within which a bank that has become a G-SIB would need to satisfy its
       higher loss absorbency requirement (see RBC40.6).

40.2   Member countries are at liberty to set more stringent standards, as with any
       other standards approved by the Committee. In particular, the concern about
       contagion that has led the Committee to propose a relatively tighter limit on
       exposures between G-SIBs applies, in principle, at the jurisdictional level to
       domestic systemically important banks (D-SIBs). The Committee therefore
       encourages jurisdictions to consider applying stricter limits to exposures between
       D-SIBs and to exposures of smaller banks to G-SIBs. The same logic would also
       be valid for the application of tighter limits to exposures to non-bank global
       systemically important financial institutions, and such a limit might be considered
       by the Committee in the future.

40.3   The assessment of the systemic importance of G-SIBs is made using data that
       relate to the consolidated group (see SCO40.5) and, consistent with this, the
       additional loss absorbency requirement will apply to the consolidated group. But,
       consistent with the additional loss absorbency requirement for G-SIBs, the
       application of the relatively tighter limit on exposures between G-SIBs at the
       consolidated level does not rule out the option for host jurisdictions of
       subsidiaries of a group that is identified as a G-SIB to also apply the limit at the
       individual legal entity or consolidated level within their jurisdiction, ie to impose
       the 15% limit on the subsidiaries’ exposures to other G-SIBs (defined at the
       individual legal entity or consolidated level within their jurisdiction).



                                 MGN
                                 Margin requirements
                                 This standard establishes minimum standards for
                                 margin requirements for non-centrally cleared
                                 derivatives. Such requirements reduce systemic
                                 risk with respect to non-standardised derivatives
                                 by reducing contagion and spillover risks and
                                 promoting central clearing.




                                 MGN10
                                 Definitions and application
                                 This chapter describes the instruments,
                                 transactions and entities to which margin
                                 requirements apply. It also describes regulatory
                                 activities to ensure consistent and non-
                                 duplicative margin requirements across
                                 jurisdictions.


                                 Scope of coverage – instruments subject to the requirements
10.1   Appropriate margining practices should be in place with respect to all derivatives
       transactions that are not cleared by central counterparties (CCPs).
 These margining practices only apply to derivatives transactions that
                   are not cleared by CCPs and do not apply to other transactions, such
                   as repurchase agreements and security lending transactions that are
                   not themselves derivatives but share some attributes with derivatives.
                   In addition, indirectly cleared derivatives transactions that are
                   intermediated through a clearing member on behalf of a non-member
                   customer are not subject to these requirements as long as (a) the non-
                   member customer is subject to the margin requirements of the clearing
                   house or (b) the non-member customer provides margin consistent
                   with the relevant corresponding clearing house’s margin requirements.


10.2   Except for physically settled foreign exchange (FX) forwards and swaps, the
       margin requirements apply to all non-centrally cleared derivatives. The margin
       requirements described in this standard do not apply to physically settled FX
       forwards and swaps. However, the Basel Committee and the International
       Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO) recognise that variation
       margining of such derivatives is a common and established practice among
       significant market participants. The Basel Committee and IOSCO recognise that
       the exchange of variation margin is a prudent risk management tool that limits
       the build-up of systemic risk. Accordingly, the Basel Committee and IOSCO agree
       that standards apply for variation margin to be exchanged on physically settled
       FX forwards and swaps in a manner consistent with the final policy framework set
       out in this document and that those variation margin standards are implemented
       either by way of supervisory guidance or national regulation. The Basel
       Committee and IOSCO note that the Basel Committee has updated the
       supervisory guidance for managing settlement risk in FX transactions. The
       update to the supervisory guidance covers margin requirements for physically
       settled FX forwards and swaps. In developing variation margin standards for
       physically settled FX forwards and swaps, national supervisors should consider
       the recommendations in the Basel Committee supervisory guidance.



The Basel Committee has issued supervisory guidance for managing
                   risks associated with the settlement of FX transactions: 


10.3   Initial margin requirements for cross-currency swaps do not apply to the fixed
       physically settled FX transactions associated with the exchange of principal of
       cross-currency swaps. In practice, the margin requirements for cross-currency
       swaps may be computed in one of two ways. Initial margin may be computed by
       reference to the “interest rate” portion of the standardised initial margin schedule
       that is discussed below and presented in the appendix. Alternatively, if initial
       margin is being calculated pursuant to an approved initial margin model, the
       initial margin model need not incorporate the risk associated with the fixed
       physically settled FX transactions associated with the exchange of principal. All
       other risks that affect cross-currency swaps, however, must be considered in the
       calculation of the initial margin amount. Finally, the variation margin
       requirements that are described below apply to all components of cross-currency
       swaps.


In the interest of clarity, the only payments to be excluded from initial
                   margin requirements for a cross-currency swap are the fixed physically
                   settled FX transactions associated with the exchange of principal
                   (which have the same characteristics as FX forward contracts). All other
                   payments or cash flows that occur during the life of the swap must be
                   subject to initial margin requirements.

10.4   Derivatives transactions between covered entities with zero counterparty risk
       require zero initial margin and may be excluded from the initial margin
       calculation. As an example, consider a European call option on a single stock.
       Suppose that one party, the option writer, agrees to sell a fixed number of shares
       to another party, the option purchaser, at a predetermined price at some specific
       future date, the contract’s expiry, if the option purchaser wishes to do so.
       Suppose further that the option purchaser makes a payment to the option writer
       at the outset of the transaction that fully compensates the option writer for the
       possibility that it will have to sell shares at contract expiry at the predetermined
       price. In this case, the option writer faces zero counterparty risk while the option
       purchaser faces counterparty risk. The option writer has received the full value of
       the option at the outset of the transaction. The option purchaser, on the other
       hand, faces counterparty risk since the option writer may not be willing or able to
       sell shares to the option purchaser at the predetermined price at the expiry of the

       contract. In this case, the option writer would not be obliged to collect any initial
       margin from the option purchaser and the call option could be excluded from the
       initial margin calculation. Since the option purchaser faces counterparty risk, the
       option purchaser must collect initial margin from the option writer in a manner
       consistent with the requirements of this standard.


Scope of coverage – covered entities
10.5   All covered entities (ie financial firms and systemically important non-financial
       entities) that engage in non-centrally cleared derivatives must exchange initial
       and variation margin as appropriate to the counterparty risks posed by such
       transactions.


The Basel Committee and IOSCO note that different treatment is
                   applied with respect to transactions between affiliated entities, as
                   described under MGN10.13 below.


10.6   Covered entities include all financial firms and systemically important non-
       financial firms. Central banks, sovereigns, multilateral development banks, the
       Bank for International Settlements, and non-systemic, non-financial firms are not
       covered entities. 



  Subject to national discretion, public sector entities (PSEs) may be
                   treated as sovereigns for the purpose of determining the applicability
                   of margin requirements. In considering whether a PSE should be
                   treated as a sovereign for the purpose of determining the applicability
                   of margin requirements, national supervisors should consider the
                   counterparty credit risk of the PSE, as reflected by, for example,
                   whether the PSE has revenue-raising powers and the extent of
                   guarantees provided by the central government.

      Multilateral development banks (MDBs) exempted from this
                   requirement are those that are eligible for a zero risk-weight under the
                   Basel capital framework (see CRE20).


10.7   The precise definition of financial firms, non-financial firms and systemically
       important non-financial firms will be determined by appropriate national
       regulation. Only non-centrally cleared derivatives transactions between two
       covered entities are governed by this standard.

10.8   All covered entities must exchange, on a bilateral basis, initial margin with a
       threshold not to exceed €50 million. The threshold is applied at the level of the
       consolidated group to which the threshold is being extended and is based on all
       non-centrally cleared derivatives between the two consolidated groups.

 Investment funds that are managed by an investment advisor are
                   considered distinct entities that are treated separately when applying
                   the threshold as long as the funds are distinct legal entities that are not
                   collateralised by or are otherwise guaranteed or supported by other
                   investment funds or the investment advisor in the event of fund
                   insolvency or bankruptcy.


10.9   The requirement that the threshold be applied on a consolidated group basis is
       intended to prevent the proliferation of affiliates and other legal entities within
       larger entities for the sole purpose of circumventing the margin requirements.
       The following example describes how the threshold would be applied by an
       entity that is facing three distinct legal entities within a larger consolidated group.

10.10 Suppose that a firm engages in separate derivatives transactions, executed under
      separate legally enforceable netting agreements, with three counterparties, A1,
      A2, A3. A1, A2 and A3, all belong to the same larger consolidated group such as a
      bank holding company. Suppose further that the initial margin requirement (as
       described in MGN20) is €100 million for each of the firm’s netting sets with A1,
       A2 and A3. Then the firm dealing with these three affiliates must collect at least
       €250 million (250=100+100+100–50) from the consolidated group. Exactly how
       the firm allocates the €50 million threshold among the three netting sets is
       subject to agreement between the firm and its counterparties. The firm may not
       extend a €50 million threshold to each netting set with, A1, A2, A3, so that the
       total amount of initial margin collected is only €150 million (150=100-50+100-
       50+100–50).

10.11 Furthermore, the requirement to apply the threshold on a fully consolidated basis
      applies to both the counterparty to which the threshold is being extended and
      the counterparty that is extending the threshold. As a specific example, suppose
      that in the example above the firm (as referenced above) is itself organised into,
      say, three subsidiaries F1, F2 and F3 and that each of these subsidiaries engages
      in non-centrally cleared derivatives transactions with A1, A2 and A3. In this case,
      the extension of the €50 million threshold by the firm to A1, A2 and A3 is
      considered across the entirety of the firm, ie F1, F2, and F3, so that all subsidiaries
      of the firm extend in the aggregate no more than €50 million in an initial margin
      threshold to all of A1, A2 and A3.

10.12 The implementation of this approach requires appropriate cooperation between
      home and host supervisors. As the threshold is applied on a consolidated basis,
      only the home supervisor of the consolidated group will necessarily be able to
      verify that the group does not exceed this threshold with all of its counterparties.
      The host supervisors of subsidiaries of a group would not be able to assess
      whether the local subsidiaries under their responsibility comply with the
      threshold allocated by the group to each of its subsidiaries. Communication
      between the home consolidated supervisors and host supervisors is therefore
      necessary to ensure that the latter have access to information on the threshold
      allocated to the local subsidiary under their responsibility.


Treatment of transactions with affiliates
10.13 Transactions between a firm and its affiliates should be subject to appropriate
      regulation in a manner consistent with each jurisdiction’s legal and regulatory
      framework. Local supervisors should review their own legal frameworks and
      market conditions and put in place initial and variation margin requirements as
      appropriate.



Interaction of national regimes in cross-border transactions
10.14 Regulatory regimes should interact so as to result in sufficiently consistent and
      non-duplicative regulatory margin requirements for non-centrally cleared
      derivatives across jurisdictions.

10.15 It is recommended that home and host country supervisors closely cooperate to
      identify conflicts and inconsistencies between regimes with respect to cross-
      border application of margin requirements. It is further recommended that
      authorities coordinate their approaches via multilateral or bilateral channels to
      reduce such issues, to the extent possible.

10.16 The margin requirements in a jurisdiction may be applied to legal entities
      established in that local jurisdiction, which would include locally established
      subsidiaries of foreign entities, in relation to the initial and variation margins that
      they collect. Home-country supervisors may permit a covered entity to comply
      with the margin requirements of a host-country margin regime with respect to its
      derivatives activities, provided that the home-country supervisor considers the
      host-country margin regime to be consistent with the margin requirements
      described in this framework. A branch is part of the same legal entity as the
      headquarters; it may be subject to either the margin requirements of the
      jurisdiction where the headquarters is established or the requirements of the host
      country.

                                 MGN20
                                 Requirements
                                 This chapter sets out baseline requirements and
                                 methodologies for initial and variation margin,
                                 including eligible collateral. Banks may use
                                 standardised approaches to calculate margin
                                 requirements or, subject to supervisory approval,
                                 internal models.


                                 
Introduction
20.1   Margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives have two main benefits:

       (1) Reduction of systemic risk: only standardised derivatives are suitable for
           central clearing. A substantial fraction of derivatives are not standardised and
           cannot be centrally cleared. These non-centrally cleared derivatives, totalling
           hundreds of trillions of dollars in notional amounts, pose the same type of
           systemic contagion and spillover risks that materialised in the recent financial
           crisis. Margin requirements for non-centrally cleared derivatives would be
           expected to reduce contagion and spillover effects by ensuring that
           collateral is available to offset losses caused by the default of a derivatives
           counterparty. Margin requirements can also have broader macroprudential
           benefits, by reducing the financial system’s vulnerability to potentially
           destabilising procyclicality and limiting the build-up of uncollateralised
           exposures within the financial system.

       (2) Promotion of central clearing: in many jurisdictions, central clearing will be
           mandatory for most standardised derivatives. But clearing imposes costs, in
           part because central counterparties (CCPs) require margin to be posted.
           Margin requirements on non-centrally cleared derivatives, by reflecting the
           generally higher risk associated with these derivatives, will promote central
           clearing, making the Group of Twenty’s original 2009 reform programme
           more effective. This could, in turn, contribute to the reduction of systemic
           risk.

20.2   Setting margin requirements at the international level is important, to avoid
       activity moving to locations with lower margin requirements. Such movement
       would raise concerns about the effectiveness of the margin requirements (eg
       regulatory arbitrage) or about financial institutions operating in low-margin
       locations gaining a competitive advantage (ie unlevel playing field).


Minimum requirements
20.3   All covered entities (ie financial firms and systemically important non-financial
       entities) that engage in non-centrally cleared derivatives must exchange initial
       and variation margin as appropriate to the counterparty risks posed by such
       transactions.
The Basel Committee and the International Organization of Securities
                   Commissions (IOSCO) note that different treatment is applied with
                   respect to transactions between affiliated entities, as described under
                   MGN10.15.


20.4   All covered entities that engage in non-centrally cleared derivatives must
       exchange, on a bilateral basis, the full amount of variation margin (ie a zero
       threshold) on a regular basis (eg daily).

20.5   All covered entities must exchange, on a bilateral basis, initial margin with a
       threshold not to exceed €50 million. The threshold is applied at the level of the
       consolidated group to which the threshold is being extended and is based on all
       non-centrally cleared derivatives between the two consolidated groups.

 Investment funds that are managed by an investment advisor are
                   considered distinct entities that are treated separately when applying
                   the threshold as long as the funds are distinct legal entities that are not
                   collateralised by or are otherwise guaranteed or supported by other
                   investment funds or the investment advisor in the event of fund
                   insolvency or bankruptcy.


20.6   All margin transfers between parties may be subject to a de-minimis minimum
       transfer amount not to exceed €500,000.

20.7   Initial margin requirements will be phased-in, but at the end of the phase-in
       period there will be a minimum level of non-centrally cleared derivatives activity
       (€8 billion of gross notional outstanding amount) necessary for covered entities
       to be subject to initial margin requirements.

20.8   The methodologies for calculating initial and variation margin that serve as the
       baseline for margin collected from a counterparty should:

       (1) be consistent across entities covered by the requirements and reflect the
           potential future exposure (initial margin) and current exposure (variation
           margin) associated with the particular portfolio of non-centrally cleared
           derivatives at issue; and

       (2) ensure that all counterparty risk exposures are covered fully with a high
           degree of confidence.



Baseline minimum amounts and methodologies for initial margin
20.9   For the purpose of informing the initial margin baseline, the potential future
       exposure of a non-centrally cleared derivatives should reflect an extreme but
       plausible estimate of an increase in the value of the instrument that is consistent
       with a one-tailed 99 per cent confidence interval over a 10-day horizon, based
       on historical data that incorporates a period of significant financial stress. The
       initial margin amount must be calibrated to a period that includes financial stress
       to ensure that sufficient margin will be available when it is most needed and to
       limit the extent to which the margin can be procyclical.

 The 10-day requirement should apply in the case that variation margin
                   is exchanged daily. If variation margin is exchanged at less than daily
                   frequency then the minimum horizon should be set equal to 10 days
                   plus the number of days in between variation margin exchanges; the
                   threshold calculation set out in MGN20.5 should nonetheless be made
                   irrespective of the frequency with which variation margin is exchanged.

      Because of the discrete subset of transactions covered by the margin
                   requirements, these assumptions differ somewhat from the
                   assumptions used to calculate potential future exposure under the
                   Basel regulatory capital framework for over-the-counter derivatives.


20.10 The required amount of initial margin may be calculated by reference to either:

       (1) a quantitative portfolio margin model; or

       (2) a standardised margin schedule.

20.11 When initial margin is calculated by reference to an initial margin model, the
      period of financial stress used for calibration should be identified and applied
      separately for each broad asset class for which portfolio margining is allowed, as
      set out below. In addition, the identified period must include a period of financial
      stress and should cover a historical period not to exceed five years. Additionally,
      the data within the identified period should be equally weighted for calibration
      purposes.


20.12 Non-centrally cleared derivatives will often be exposed to a number of complex
      and interrelated risks. Internal or third-party quantitative models that assess these
      risks in a granular form can be useful for ensuring that the relevant initial margin
      amounts are calculated in an appropriately risk-sensitive manner. Moreover,

       current practice among a number of large and active central counterparties is to
       use internal quantitative models when determining initial margin amounts.

20.13 Notwithstanding the utility of quantitative models, the use of such models is
      predicated on the satisfaction of several prerequisite conditions. These additional
      requirements are intended to ensure that the use of models does not lead to a
      lowering of margin standards. The use of models is also not intended to lower
      margin standards that may already exist in the context of some non-centrally
      cleared derivatives. Rather, the use of models is intended to produce
      appropriately risk-sensitive assessments of potential future exposure so as to
      promote robust margin requirements.

       (1) Any quantitative model that is used for initial margin purposes must be
           approved by the relevant supervisory authority. Models that have not been
           granted explicit approval may not be used for initial margin purposes.
           Models may be either internally developed or sourced from the
           counterparties or third-party vendors but in all such cases these models
           must be approved by the appropriate supervisory authority. Moreover, in the
           event that a third party-provided model is used for initial margin purposes,
           the model must be approved for use within each jurisdiction and by each
           institution seeking to use the model. Similarly, an unregulated counterparty
           that wishes to use a quantitative model for initial margin purposes may use
           an approved initial margin model. There will be no presumption that
           approval by one supervisor in the case of one or more institutions will imply
           approval for a wider set of jurisdictions and/or institutions.

       (2) Quantitative initial margin models must be subject to an internal governance
           process that continuously assesses the value of the model’s risk assessments,
           tests the model’s assessments against realised data and experience, and
           validates the applicability of the model to the derivatives for which it is being
           used. The process must take into account the complexity of the products
           covered (eg barrier options and other more complex structures).

20.14 Quantitative initial margin models may account for risk on a portfolio basis. More
      specifically, the initial margin model may consider all of the derivatives that are
      approved for model use that are subject to a single legally enforceable netting
      agreement. Derivatives between counterparties that are not subject to the same
      legally enforceable netting agreement must not be considered in the same initial
      margin model calculation.


20.15
        Derivative portfolios are often exposed to a number of offsetting risks that can
        and should be reliably quantified for the purposes of calculating initial margin
        requirements. At the same time, a distinction must be made between offsetting
        risks that can be reliably quantified and those that are more difficult to quantify.
        In particular, inter-relationships between derivatives in distinct asset classes, such
        as equities and commodities, are difficult to model and validate. Moreover, this
        type of relationship is prone to instability and may be more likely to break down
        in a period of financial stress. Accordingly, initial margin models may account for
        diversification, hedging and risk offsets within well defined asset classes such as
        currency/rates,  equity, credit, or commodities, but not across such asset classes
        and provided these instruments are covered by the same legally enforceable
        netting agreement. However, any such incorporation of diversification, hedging
        and risk offsets by an initial margin model will require approval by the relevant
        supervisory authority. Initial margin calculations for derivatives in distinct asset
        classes must be performed without regard to derivatives in other asset classes. As
        a specific example, for a derivatives portfolio consisting of a single credit
        derivative and a single commodity derivative, an initial margin calculation that
        uses an internal model would proceed by first calculating the initial margin
        requirement on the credit derivatives and then calculating the initial margin
        requirement on the commodity derivative. The total initial margin requirement
        for the portfolio would be the sum of the two individual initial margin amounts
        because they are in two different asset classes (commodities and credit). Finally,
        derivatives for which a firm faces no (ie zero) counterparty risk require no initial
        margin to be collected and may be excluded from the initial margin calculation.


 Currency and interest rate derivatives may be portfolio margined
                    together for the purposes of these requirements. As an example, an
                    interest rate swap and a currency option may be margined on a
                    portfolio basis as part of a single asset class.

        Inflation swaps, which transfer inflation risk between counterparties,
                    may be considered as part of the currency/rates asset class for the
                    purpose of computing model-based initial margin requirements, and as
                    part of the interest rate asset class for the purposes of computing
                    standardised initial margin requirements.




20.16 While quantitative, portfolio-based initial margin models can be a good risk
      management tool if monitored and governed appropriately; there are some
      instances in which a simpler and less risk-sensitive approach to initial margin
      calculations may be warranted. In particular, smaller market participants may not

       wish or may be unable to develop and maintain a quantitative model and may be
       unwilling to rely on counterparty’s model. In addition, some market participants
       may value simplicity and transparency in initial margin calculations, without
       resorting to a complex quantitative model. Further, an appropriately conservative
       alternative for calculating initial margin is needed in the event that no approved
       initial margin model exists to cover a specific transaction. Accordingly, the Basel
       Committee and the International Organization of Securities Commissions (IOSCO)
       have provided an initial margin schedule, included as Table 1, which may be used
       to compute the amount of initial margin required on a set of derivatives
       transactions.

        Standardised initial margin schedule                                           Table 1


                                                 Initial margin requirement (% of notional
                       Asset class
                                                                  exposure)

        Credit: 0-2 year duration                                    2

        Credit: 2-5 year duration                                    5

        Credit: 5+ year duration                                    10

        Commodity                                                   15

        Equity                                                      15

        Foreign exchange                                             6

        Interest rate: 0-2 year duration                             1

        Interest rate: 2-5 year duration                             2

        Interest rate: 5+ year duration                              4

        Other                                                       15



20.17 The required initial margin will be computed by referencing the standardised
      margin rates in MGN20.16 and by adjusting the gross initial margin amount by an
      amount that relates to the net-to-gross ratio (NGR) pertaining to all derivatives in
      the legally enforceable netting set. The use of the net-to-gross ratio is an
      accepted practice in the context of bank capital regulation and recognises

       important offsets that would not be recognised by strict application of a
       standardised margin schedule. The required initial margin amount would be
       calculated in two steps.

       (1) First, the margin rate in the provided schedule would be multiplied by the
           gross notional size of the derivatives contract, and then this calculation
           would be repeated for each derivatives contract.

       (2) Second, the gross initial margin amount is adjusted by the ratio of the net current replace
           cost to gross current replacement cost (NGR). The NGR is defined as the level of net repla
           cost over the level of gross replacement cost for transactions subject to legally enforceabl
           netting agreements. The total amount of initial margin required on a portfolio according t
           standardised margin schedule would be the net standardised initial margin amount. This i
           expressed through the following formula:


 Subject to approval by the relevant supervisory authority, a limited
                   degree of netting may be performed at the level of a specific
                   derivatives contract to compute the notional amount that is applied to
                   the margin rate. As an example, one pay-fixed-interest-rate swap with
                   a maturity of three years and a notional of 100 could be netted against
                   another pay-floating-interest-rate swap with a maturity of three years
                   and a notional of 50 to arrive at a single notional of 50 to which the
                   appropriate margin rate would be applied. Derivatives with different
                   fundamental characteristics such as underlying, maturity and so forth
                   may not be netted against each other for the purpose of computing the
                   notional amount against which the standardised margin rate is applied.


20.18 However, if a regulated entity is already using a schedule-based margin to satisfy
      requirements under its required capital regime, the appropriate supervisory
      authority may permit the use of the same schedule for initial margin purposes,
      provided that it is at least as conservative.





20.19



        As in the case where firms use quantitative models to calculate initial margin,
        derivatives for which a firm faces no (ie zero) counterparty risk require no initial
        margin to be collected and may be excluded from the standardised initial margin
        calculation.

20.20 Derivatives market participants should not be allowed to switch between model-
      and schedule- based margin calculations in an effort to “cherry pick” the most
      favourable initial margin terms. Accordingly, the choice between model- and
      schedule-based initial margin calculations should be made consistently over time
      for all transactions within the same well defined asset class and, if applicable, it
      should comply with any other requirements imposed by the entity’s supervisory
      authority.

20.21 At the same time, it is quite possible that a market participant may use a model-
      based initial margin calculation for one class of derivatives in which it commonly
      deals and a schedule-based initial margin in the case of some derivatives that are
      less routinely employed in its trading activities. A firm need not restrict itself to a
      model-based approach or to a schedule-based approach for the entirety of its
      derivatives activities. Rather, this requirement is meant to ensure that market
      participants do not use model-based margin calculations in those instances in
      which such calculations are more favourable than schedule-based requirements
      and schedule-based margin calculations when those requirements are more
      favourable than model-based margin requirements.

20.22 Initial margin should be collected at the outset of a transaction, and collected
      thereafter on a routine and consistent basis upon changes in measured potential
      future exposure, such as when trades are added to or subtracted from the
      portfolio. To mitigate procyclicality impacts, large discrete calls for (additional)
      initial margin due to “cliff-edge” triggers should be discouraged.

20.23 The build-up of additional initial margin should be gradual so that it can be
      managed over time. Moreover, margin levels should be sufficiently conservative,
      even during periods of low market volatility, to avoid procyclicality. The specific
      requirement that initial margin be set consistent with a period that includes stress
      is meant to limit procyclical changes in the amount of initial margin required.




20.24 Parties to derivatives contracts should have rigorous and robust dispute
      resolution procedures in place with their counterparty before the onset of a
      transaction. In particular, the amount of initial margin to be collected from one
      party by another will be the result of either an approved model calculation or the
      standardised schedule. The specific method and parameters that will be used by
      each party to calculate initial margin should be agreed and recorded at the onset

       of the transaction to reduce potential disputes. Moreover, parties may agree to
       use a single model for the purposes of such margin model calculations subject to
       bilateral agreement and appropriate regulatory approval. In the event that a
       margin dispute arises, both parties should make all necessary and appropriate
       efforts, including timely initiation of dispute resolution protocols, to resolve the
       dispute and exchange the required amount of initial margin in a timely fashion.

20.25 The applicable netting agreements used by market participants will need to be
      effective under the laws of the relevant jurisdictions and supported by
      periodically updated legal opinions. Supervisory authorities and relevant market
      participants should consider how those requirements could best be complied
      with in practice.


Baseline minimum amounts and methodologies for variation margin
20.26 For variation margin, the full amount necessary to fully collateralise the mark-to-
      market exposure of the non-centrally cleared derivatives must be exchanged.

20.27 To reduce adverse liquidity shocks and in order to effectively mitigate
      counterparty credit risk, variation margin should be calculated and exchanged for
      non-centrally cleared derivatives subject to a single, legally enforceable netting
      agreement with sufficient frequency (eg daily).

20.28 The valuation of a derivative’s current exposure can be complex and, at times,
      become subject to question or dispute by one or both parties. In the case of non-
      centrally cleared derivatives, these instruments are likely to be relatively illiquid.
      The associated lack of price transparency further complicates the process of
      agreeing on current exposure amounts for variation margin purposes.
      Accordingly, parties to derivatives contracts should have rigorous and robust
      dispute resolution procedures in place with their counterparty before the onset of
      a transaction. In the event that a margin dispute arises, both parties should make
      all necessary and appropriate efforts, including timely initiation of dispute
      resolution protocols, to resolve the dispute and exchange the required amount of
      variation margin in a timely fashion.


Eligible collateral for margin
20.29 To ensure that assets collected as collateral for initial and variation margin
      purposes can be liquidated in a reasonable amount of time to generate proceeds
      that could sufficiently protect collecting entities covered by the requirements
      from losses on non-centrally cleared derivatives in the event of a counterparty
      default, these assets should be highly liquid and should, after accounting for an
      appropriate haircut, be able to hold their value in a time of financial stress. The
      set of eligible collateral should take into account that assets which are liquid in
      normal market conditions may rapidly become illiquid in times of financial stress.
      In addition to having good liquidity, eligible collateral should not be exposed to
      excessive credit, market and foreign exchange (FX) risk (including through
      differences between the currency of the collateral asset and the currency of
      settlement). To the extent that the value of the collateral is exposed to these risks,
      appropriately risk-sensitive haircuts should be applied. More importantly, the
      value of the collateral should not exhibit a significant correlation with the
      creditworthiness of the counterparty or the value of the underlying non-centrally
      cleared derivatives portfolio in such a way that would undermine the
      effectiveness of the protection offered by the margin collected (ie the so-called
      “wrong way risk”). Accordingly, securities issued by the counterparty or its related
      entities should not be accepted as collateral. Accepted collateral should also be
      reasonably diversified.

20.30 National supervisors should develop their own list of eligible collateral assets
      based on the key principle, taking into account the conditions of their own
      markets. As a guide, examples of the types of eligible collateral that satisfy the
      key principle would generally include:

       (1) cash;

       (2) high-quality government and central bank securities;

       (3) high-quality corporate bonds;

       (4) high-quality covered bonds;

       (5) equities included in major stock indices; and

       (6) gold.




20.31 The illustrative list in MGN20.30 should not be viewed as being exhaustive.
      Additional assets and instruments that satisfy the key principle may also serve as
      eligible collateral. Also, in different jurisdictions, some particular forms of
      collateral may be more abundant or generally available due to institutional
      market practices or norms. Eligible collateral can be denominated in any currency

       in which payment obligations under the non-centrally cleared derivatives may be
       made, or in highly liquid foreign currencies subject to appropriate haircuts to
       reflect the inherent FX risk involved.

20.32 Haircut requirements should be transparent and easy to calculate, so as to
      facilitate payments between counterparties, avoid disputes and reduce overall
      operational risk. Haircut levels should be risk-based and should be calibrated
      appropriately to reflect the underlying risks that affect the value of eligible
      collateral, such as market price volatility, liquidity, credit risk and FX volatility,
      during both normal and stressed market conditions. Haircuts should be set
      conservatively to avoid procyclicality. For example, haircuts should be set at a
      sufficiently high level during “good times” to avoid the need for sharp and
      sudden increases in times of stress. Potential methods for determining
      appropriate haircuts could include either internal or third-party quantitative
      model-based haircuts or schedule-based haircuts. Each alternative is briefly
      discussed below.

20.33 As in the case of initial margin models, risk-sensitive quantitative models, both
      internal or third-party, could be used to establish haircuts provided that the
      model is approved by supervisors and is subject to appropriate internal
      governance standards. As in the case of initial margin models, an unregulated
      derivatives counterparty may use an approved quantitative model. In addition to
      the points regarding the use of internal models discussed in the context of initial
      margin, the Basel Committee and IOSCO also note that eligible collateral may
      vary across national jurisdictions owing to differences in the availability and
      liquidity of certain types of collateral. As a result, it may be difficult to establish a
      standardised set of haircuts that would apply to all types of collateral across all
      jurisdictions that are consistent with the key principle.



20.34 In addition to haircuts based on quantitative models, as in the case of initial
      margin, derivatives counterparties should also have the option of using
      standardised haircuts that would provide transparency and limit procyclical
      effects. The Basel Committee and IOSCO have established a standardised
      schedule of haircuts for the list of assets appearing above. The haircut levels are
      derived from the standard supervisory haircuts adopted in the Basel Accord’s
      comprehensive approach to collateralised transactions framework, and can be
      found in Table 2. In the event that the Basel Committee chooses to make changes
      to these haircuts for regulatory capital purposes, the Basel Committee and IOSCO
      would expect to adopt these changes in the context of the margin requirements
       for non-centrally cleared derivatives absent a compelling policy reason not to do
       so. However, if a regulated entity is subject to an existing standardised haircut-
       based approach under its required capital regime, the appropriate supervisory
       authority may permit the use of the same haircuts for initial margin purposes,
       provided that they are at least as conservative. While haircuts serve a critical risk
       management function in ensuring that pledged collateral is sufficient to cover
       margin needs in a time of financial stress, other risk mitigants should also be
       considered when accepting non-cash collateral. In particular, entities covered by
       the requirements should ensure that the collateral collected is not overly
       concentrated in terms of an individual issuer, issuer type and asset type.



        Standardised haircut schedule                                                        Table 2


                                                                              Haircut (% of market
                                      Asset class
                                                                                      value)

        Cash in same currency                                                          0

        High-quality government and central bank securities: residual  maturity less than one year               0.5
        

        High-quality government and central bank securities: residual    maturity between one and five years                2
       

        High-quality government and central bank securities: residual  maturity greater than five years                4
        

        High-quality corporate / covered bonds: residual maturity less than one year           1
        

        High-quality corporate / covered bonds: residual maturity greater  than one year and less than five years             4
       

        High-quality corporate / covered bonds: residual maturity greater  than five years            8
        

        Equities included in major stock indices                                       15

        Gold                                                                           15

        Additional (additive) haircut in which the currency of the  derivatives obligation differs from that of the collateral asset                   8
        



20.35 Schedule-based haircuts should be stringent enough to give firms an incentive to
      develop internal models. To prevent firms from selectively applying the
      standardised tables where this would produce a lower haircut, firms would have
      to consistently adopt either the standardised tables approach or the internal
      /third-party models approach for all the collateral assets within the same well
      defined asset class.

20.36 In the event that a dispute arises over the value of eligible collateral, both parties
      should make all necessary and appropriate efforts, including timely initiation of
      dispute resolution protocols, to resolve the dispute and exchange any required
      margin in a timely fashion.



20.37 Collateral that is posted by a counterparty to satisfy margin requirements may, at
      some point in time before the end of the derivatives contract, be needed by the
      counterparty for some particular reason or purpose. Alternative collateral may be

       substituted or exchanged for the collateral that was originally posted provided
       that both parties agree to the substitution and that the substitution or exchange
       is made on the terms applicable to their agreement. When collateral is
       substituted, the alternative collateral must meet all the requirements outlined
       above. Further, the value of the alternative collateral, after the application of
       haircuts, must be sufficient to meet the margin requirement.


Treatment of provided initial margin
20.38 Because the exchange of initial margin on a net basis may be insufficient to
      protect two market participants with large gross derivatives exposures to each
      other in the case of one firm’s failure, the gross initial margin between such firms
      should be exchanged. Initial margin collected should be held in such a way as to
      ensure that:

       (1) the margin collected is immediately available to the collecting party in the
           event of the counterparty’s default, and

       (2) the collected margin must be subject to arrangements that protect the
           posting party to the extent possible under applicable law in the event that
           the collecting party enters bankruptcy.

20.39 The collateral arrangements used will need to be effective under the relevant laws
      and supported by periodically updated legal opinions. Jurisdictions are
      encouraged to review the relevant local laws to ensure that collateral can be
      sufficiently protected in the event of bankruptcy.

20.40 Initial margin should be exchanged on a gross basis and held in a manner
      consistent with the key principle in MGN20.38.



20.41 Except where re-hypothecated, re-pledged or re-used in accordance with MGN20.
      42, cash and non-cash collateral collected as initial margin should not be re-
      hypothecated, re-pledged or re-used. A jurisdiction may allow the initial margin
      collector (initial margin collector) to re-hypothecate, re-pledge or re-use certain
      initial margin collected from a customer (customer) provided that the strict
      circumstances provided in MGN20.42 are fully adhered to and that the
      jurisdiction determines that appropriate controls are in place to ensure that such
      collateral use would only allow a one-time re-hypothecation, re-pledge or re-use
      in the global financial system; that is, once initial margin collateral has been re-
      hypothecated, re-pledged or re-used to a third party (third party) in accordance
      with MGN20.42, no further re-hypothecation, re-pledging or re-use of such initial

       margin collateral by the third party is permitted. Moreover, collected collateral
       must be segregated from the initial margin collector’s proprietary assets. In
       addition, the initial margin collector must give the customer the option to
       segregate the collateral that it posts from the assets of all the initial margin
       collector’s other customers and counterparties (ie individual segregation).

20.42 Cash and non-cash collateral collected as initial margin from a customer may be
      re-hypothecated, re-pledged or re-used (henceforth re-hypothecated) to a third
      party only for purposes of hedging the initial margin collector’s derivatives
      position arising out of transactions with customers for which initial margin was
      collected and it must be subject to conditions that protect the customer’s rights
      in the collateral, to the extent permitted by applicable national law. In this
      context, customers should only include “buy-side” financial firms as well as non-
      financial entities, but shall not include entities that regularly hold themselves out
      as making a market in derivatives, routinely quote bid and offer prices on
      derivative contracts and routinely respond to requests for bid or offer prices on
      derivative contracts. In any event, the customer’s collateral may be re-
      hypothecated only if the conditions described below are met:

       (1) The customer, as part of its contractual agreement with the initial margin
           collector and after disclosure by the initial margin collector of both its right
           not to permit re-hypothecation and the risks associated with the nature of
           the customer’s claim to the re-hypothecated collateral in the event of the
           insolvency of the initial margin collector or the third party, gives express
           consent in writing to the re-hypothecation of its collateral. In addition, the
           initial margin collector must give the customer the option to individually
           segregate the collateral that it posts.

       (2) The initial margin collector is subject to regulation of liquidity risk.




     (3) Collateral collected as initial margin from the customer is treated as a
         customer asset, and is segregated from the initial margin collector’s
         proprietary assets until re-hypothecated. Once re-hypothecated, the third

         party must treat the collateral as a customer asset, and must segregate it
         from the third party’s proprietary assets. Assets returned to the initial margin
         collector after re-hypothecation must also be treated as customer assets and
         must be segregated from the initial margin collector’s proprietary assets.

     (4) The collateral of customers that have consented to the re-hypothecation of
         their collateral must be segregated from that of customers that have not so
         consented.

     (5) Where initial margin has been individually segregated, the collateral must
         only be re-hypothecated for the purpose of hedging the initial margin
         collector’s derivatives position arising out of transactions with the customer
         in relation to which the collateral was provided.

     (6) Where initial margin has been individually segregated and subsequently re-
         hypothecated, the initial margin collector must require the third party
         similarly to segregate the collateral from the assets of the third party’s other
         customers, counterparties and its proprietary assets.

     (7) Protection is given to the customer from the risk of loss of initial margin in
         circumstances where either the initial margin collector or the third party
         becomes insolvent and where both the initial margin collector and the third
         party become insolvent.

     (8) Where the initial margin collector re-hypothecates initial margin, the
         agreement with the recipient of the collateral (ie the third party) must
         prohibit the third party from further re-hypothecating the collateral.

     (9) Where collateral is re-hypothecated, the initial margin collector must notify
         the customer of that fact. Upon request by the customer and where the
         customer has opted for individual segregation, the initial margin collector
         must notify the customer of the amount of cash collateral and the value of
         non-cash collateral that has been re-hypothecated.

     (10) Collateral must only be re-hypothecated to, and held by, an entity that is
          regulated in a jurisdiction that meets all of the specific conditions contained
          in this section and in which the specific conditions can be enforced by the
          initial margin collector.

     (11) The customer and the third party may not be within the same group.


      (12) The initial margin collector and the third party must keep appropriate
           records to show that all the above conditions have been met.

20.43 The level and volume of re-hypothecation should be disclosed to authorities so
      that they can monitor any resulting risk.

20.44 Cash and non-cash collateral collected as variation margin may be re-
      hypothecated, re-pledged or re-used.


                                 MGN90
                                 Transition
                                 This chapter sets out the transitional
                                 arrangements that apply to the margin
                                 requirements.


                                
Introduction
90.1   The requirements described in MGN should be phased in so that the systemic risk
       reductions and incentive benefits are appropriately balanced against the liquidity,
       operational and transition costs associated with implementing the requirements.
       In addition, the requirements should be regularly reviewed to evaluate their
       efficacy, soundness and relationship to other existing and related regulatory
       initiatives, and to ensure harmonisation across jurisdictions.


Transitional arrangements for initial margin
90.2   The requirement to exchange two-way initial margin with a threshold of up to
       €50 million will be staged as follows.

       (1) From 1 September 2018 to 31 August 2019, any covered entity belonging to
           a group whose aggregate month-end average notional amount of non-
           centrally cleared derivatives for March, April, and May of 2018 exceeds €1.5
           trillion will be subject to the requirements when transacting with another
           covered entity (provided that it also meets that condition).

       (2) From 1 September 2019 to 31 August 2021, any covered entity belonging to
           a group whose aggregate month-end average notional amount of non-
           centrally cleared derivatives for March, April, and May of 2019 exceeds €0.75
           trillion will be subject to the requirements when transacting with another
           covered entity (provided that it also meets that condition).

       (3) From 1 September 2021 to 31 August 2022, any covered entity belonging to
           a group whose aggregate month-end average notional amount of non-
           centrally cleared derivatives for March, April, and May of 2021 exceeds €50
           billion will be subject to the requirements when transacting with another
           covered entity (provided that it also meets that condition).

       (4) On a permanent basis (ie from 1 September 2022), any covered entity
           belonging to a group whose aggregate month-end average notional amount
           of non-centrally cleared derivatives for March, April, and May of the year
           exceeds €8 billion will be subject to the requirements described in this paper
           during the one-year period from 1 September of that year to 31 August of
           the following year when transacting with another covered entity (provided
           that it also meets that condition). Any covered entity belonging to a group
           whose aggregate month-end average notional amount of non-centrally
           cleared derivatives for March, April, and May of the year is less than €8
           billion will not be subject to the initial margin requirements described in
           MGN.



90.3   For the purposes of calculating the group aggregate month-end average notional
       amount for determining whether a covered entity will be subject to the initial
       margin requirements described in this paper, all of the group’s non-centrally
       cleared derivatives, including physically settled foreign exchange forwards and
       swaps, should be included.

90.4   Initial margin requirements will apply to all new contracts entered into during the
       periods described above. Applying the initial margin requirements to existing
       derivatives contracts is not required.
 Genuine amendments to existing derivatives contracts do not qualify
                   as a new derivatives contract. Any amendment that is intended to
                   extend an existing derivatives contract for the purpose of avoiding
                   margin requirements will be considered a new derivatives contract.


90.5   Global regulators will work together to ensure that there is sufficient transparency
       regarding which entities are and are not subject to the initial margin
       requirements during the phase-in period.


Transitional arrangements for variation margin
90.6   From 1 September 2016, any covered entity belonging to a group whose
       aggregate month-end average notional amount of non-centrally cleared
       derivatives from March, April and May 2016 exceeds €3.0 trillion will be required
       to exchange variation margin when transacting with another covered entity
       (provided that it also meets that condition). The requirements to exchange
       variation margin between these covered entities only applies to new contracts
       entered into after 1 September 2016. Exchange of variation margin on other
       contracts is subject to bilateral agreement.

90.7   From 1 March 2017, all covered entities will be required to exchange initial
       margin. Subject to MGN90.6, the requirement to exchange variation margin
       between covered entities only applies to new contracts entered into after 1
       March 2017. Exchange of variation margin on other contracts is subject to
       bilateral agreement.



          SRP
                                 Supervisory review process
                                 The Pillar 2 supervisory review process ensures
                                 that banks have adequate capital and liquidity to
                                 support all the risks in their business, especially
                                 with respect to risks not fully captured by the
                                 Pillar 1 process, and encourages good risk
                                 management.


                                 SRP10
                                 Importance of supervisory
                                 review
                                 This chapter describes the objectives and
                                 importance of the supervisory review process.


                                Importance of supervisory review
10.1   The supervisory review process of the Framework is intended not only to ensure
       that banks have adequate capital and liquidity to support all the risks in their
       business, but also to encourage banks to develop and use better risk
       management techniques in monitoring and managing their risks.

10.2   The supervisory review process recognises the responsibility of bank
       management in developing an internal capital assessment process and setting
       capital targets that are commensurate with the bank’s risk profile and control
       environment. In the Framework, bank management continues to bear
       responsibility for ensuring that the bank has adequate capital to support its risks
       beyond the core minimum requirements.

10.3   Supervisors are expected to evaluate how well banks are assessing their capital
       needs relative to their risks and to intervene, where appropriate. This interaction
       is intended to foster an active dialogue between banks and supervisors such that
       when deficiencies are identified, prompt and decisive action can be taken to
       reduce risk or restore capital. Accordingly, supervisors may wish to adopt an
       approach to focus more intensely on those banks with risk profiles or operational
       experience that warrants such attention.

10.4   The Committee recognises the relationship that exists between the amount of
       capital held by the bank against its risks and the strength and effectiveness of the
       bank’s risk management and internal control processes. However, increased
       capital should not be viewed as the only option for addressing increased risks
       confronting the bank. Other means for addressing risk, such as strengthening risk
       management, applying internal limits, strengthening the level of provisions and
       reserves, and improving internal controls, must also be considered. Furthermore,
       capital should not be regarded as a substitute for addressing fundamentally
       inadequate control or risk management processes.

10.5   There are three main areas that might be particularly suited to treatment under
       Pillar 2: risks considered under Pillar 1 that are not fully captured by the Pillar 1
       process (eg credit concentration risk); those factors not taken into account by the
       Pillar 1 process (eg interest rate risk in the banking book, business and strategic
       risk); and factors external to the bank (eg business cycle effects). A further
       important aspect of Pillar 2 is the assessment of compliance with the minimum
       standards and disclosure requirements of the more advanced methods in Pillar 1.
       Supervisors must ensure that these requirements are being met, both as
       qualifying criteria and on a continuing basis.



 SRP20
                                 Four key principles
                                 The Committee has identified four key principles
                                 of supervisory review under Pillar 2. These
                                 complement other supervisory guidance
                                 published by the Committee, including the Basel
                                 Core Principles.


                                 Version effective as of
                                 15 Dec 2019
                                 First version in the format of the consolidated
                                 framework.




The four key principles
20.1   Principle 1: Banks should have a process for assessing their overall capital
       adequacy in relation to their risk profile and a strategy for maintaining their
       capital levels.

20.2   Principle 2: Supervisors should review and evaluate banks’ internal capital
       adequacy assessments and strategies, as well as their ability to monitor and
       ensure their compliance with regulatory capital ratios. Supervisors should take
       appropriate supervisory action if they are not satisfied with the result of this
       process.

20.3   Principle 3: Supervisors should expect banks to operate above the minimum
       regulatory capital ratios and should have the ability to require banks to hold
       capital in excess of the minimum.

20.4   Principle 4: Supervisors should seek to intervene at an early stage to prevent
       capital from falling below the minimum levels required to support the risk
       characteristics of a particular bank and should require rapid remedial action if
       capital is not maintained or restored.


Principle 1 – banks’ process for assessing capital adequacy
20.5   Banks must be able to demonstrate that chosen internal capital targets are well
       founded and that these targets are consistent with their overall risk profile and
       current operating environment. In assessing capital adequacy, bank management
       needs to be mindful of the particular stage of the business cycle in which the
       bank is operating. Rigorous, forward-looking stress testing that identifies possible
       events or changes in market conditions that could adversely impact the bank
       should be performed. Bank management clearly bears primary responsibility for
       ensuring that the bank has adequate capital to support its risks.

20.6   The five main features of a rigorous process are as follows:

       (1) board and senior management oversight;

       (2) sound capital assessment;

       (3) comprehensive assessment of risks;

       (4) monitoring and reporting; and

       (5) internal control review.




 This chapter refers to a management structure composed of a board of
                   directors and senior management. The Committee is aware that there
                   are significant differences in legislative and regulatory frameworks
                   across countries as regards the functions of the board of directors and
                   senior management. In some countries, the board has the main, if not
                   exclusive, function of supervising the executive body (senior
                   management, general management) so as to ensure that the latter
                   fulfils its tasks. For this reason, in some cases, it is known as a
                   supervisory board. This means that the board has no executive
                   functions. In other countries, by contrast, the board has a broader
                   competence in that it lays down the general framework for the
                   management of the bank. Owing to these differences, the notions of
                   the board of directors and senior management are used in this section
                   not to identify legal constructs but rather to label two decision-making
                   functions within a bank.



Board and senior management oversight

20.7   A sound risk management process is the foundation for an effective assessment
       of the adequacy of a bank’s capital position. Bank management is responsible for
       understanding the nature and level of risk being taken by the bank and how this
       risk relates to adequate capital levels. It is also responsible for ensuring that the
       formality and sophistication of the risk management processes are appropriate in
       light of the risk profile and business plan.

20.8   The analysis of a bank’s current and future capital requirements in relation to its
       strategic objectives is a vital element of the strategic planning process. The
       strategic plan should clearly outline the bank’s capital needs, anticipated capital
       expenditures, desirable capital level, and external capital sources. Senior
       management and the board should view capital planning as a crucial element in
       being able to achieve its desired strategic objectives.

20.9   The bank’s board of directors has responsibility for setting the bank’s tolerance
       for risks. It should also ensure that management establishes a framework for
       assessing the various risks, develops a system to relate risk to the bank’s capital
       level, and establishes a method for monitoring compliance with internal policies.
       It is likewise important that the board of directors adopts and supports strong
       internal controls and written policies and procedures and ensures that
       management effectively communicates these throughout the organisation.



Sound capital assessment

20.10 Fundamental elements of sound capital assessment include:

       (1) policies and procedures designed to ensure that the bank identifies,
           measures, and reports all material risks;

       (2) a process that relates capital to the level of risk;

       (3) a process that states capital adequacy goals with respect to risk, taking
           account of the bank’s strategic focus and business plan; and

       (4) a process of internal controls, reviews and audit to ensure the integrity of the
           overall management process.


Comprehensive assessment of risks

20.11 All material risks faced by the bank should be addressed in the capital assessment
      process. While the Committee recognises that not all risks can be measured
      precisely, a process should be developed to estimate risks. Therefore, the
      following risk exposures, which by no means constitute a comprehensive list of all
      risks, should be considered.

20.12 Credit risk: Banks should have methodologies that enable them to assess the
      credit risk involved in exposures to individual borrowers or counterparties as well
      as at the portfolio level. Banks should assess exposures, regardless of whether
      they are rated or unrated, and determine whether the risk weights applied to
      such exposures, under the Standardised Approach, are appropriate for their
      inherent risk. In those instances where a bank determines that the inherent risk of
      such an exposure, particularly if it is unrated, is significantly higher than that
      implied by the risk weight to which it is assigned, the bank should consider the
      higher degree of credit risk in the evaluation of its overall capital adequacy. For
      more sophisticated banks, the credit review assessment of capital adequacy, at a
      minimum, should cover four areas:

       (1) risk-rating systems,

       (2) portfolio analysis / aggregation;

       (3) securitisation / complex credit derivatives; and

       (4) large exposures and risk concentrations.




20.13 Internal risk ratings are an important tool in monitoring credit risk. Internal risk
      ratings should be adequate to support the identification and measurement of risk

       from all credit exposures, and should be integrated into an institution’s overall
       analysis of credit risk and capital adequacy. The ratings system should provide
       detailed ratings for all assets, not only for criticised or problem assets. Loan loss
       reserves should be included in the credit risk assessment for capital adequacy.

20.14 The analysis of credit risk should adequately identify any weaknesses at the
      portfolio level, including any concentrations of risk. It should also adequately take
      into consideration the risks involved in managing credit concentrations and other
      portfolio issues through such mechanisms as securitisation programmes and
      complex credit derivatives. Further, the analysis of counterparty credit risk should
      include consideration of public evaluation of the supervisor’s compliance with the
      Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision (BCP).

20.15 Operational risk: the Committee believes that similar rigour should be applied to
      the management of operational risk, as is done for the management of other
      significant banking risks. The failure to properly manage operational risk can
      result in a misstatement of an institution’s risk/return profile and expose the
      institution to significant losses.

20.16 A bank should develop a framework for managing operational risk and evaluate
      the adequacy of capital given this framework. The framework should cover the
      bank’s appetite and tolerance for operational risk, as specified through the
      policies for managing this risk, including the extent and manner in which
      operational risk is transferred outside the bank. It should also include policies
      outlining the bank’s approach to identifying, assessing, monitoring and
      controlling/mitigating the risk.

20.17 Market risk: banks should have methodologies that enable them to assess and
      actively manage all material market risks, wherever they arise, at position, desk,
      business line and firm-wide level. For more sophisticated banks, their assessment
      of internal capital adequacy for market risk, at a minimum, should be based on
      both value-at-risk (VaR) modelling and stress testing, including an assessment of
      concentration risk and the assessment of illiquidity under stressful market
      scenarios, although all firms’ assessments should include stress testing
      appropriate to their trading activity.


20.18 VaR is an important tool in monitoring aggregate market risk exposures and
      provides a common metric for comparing the risk being run by different desks
      and business lines. A bank’s VaR model should be adequate to identify and
      measure risks arising from all its trading activities and should be integrated into
      the bank’s overall internal capital assessment as well as subject to rigorous on-
      going validation. A VaR model estimates should be sensitive to changes in the
      trading book risk profile.

20.19 Banks must supplement their VaR model with stress tests (factor shocks or
      integrated scenarios whether historic or hypothetical) and other appropriate risk
      management techniques. In the bank’s internal capital assessment it must
      demonstrate that it has enough capital to not only meet the minimum capital
      requirements but also to withstand a range of severe but plausible market
      shocks. In particular, it must factor in, where appropriate:

       (1) illiquidity / gapping of prices;

       (2) concentrated positions (in relation to market turnover);

       (3) one-way markets;

       (4) non-linear products / deep out-of-the-money positions;

       (5) events and jumps-to-default;

       (6) significant shifts in correlations; and

       (7) other risks that may not be appropriately captured in VaR (eg recovery rate
           uncertainty, implied correlations or skew risk).

20.20 The stress tests applied by a bank and, in particular, the calibration of those tests
      (e.g. the parameters of the shocks or types of events considered) should be
      reconciled back to a clear statement setting out the premise upon which the bank’
      s internal capital assessment is based (eg ensuring there is adequate capital to
      manage the traded portfolios within stated limits through what may be a
      prolonged period of market stress and illiquidity, or that there is adequate capital
      to ensure that, over a given time horizon to a specified confidence level, all
      positions can be liquidated or the risk hedged in an orderly fashion). The market
      shocks applied in the tests must reflect the nature of portfolios and the time it
      could take to hedge out or manage risks under severe market conditions.

20.21 Concentration risk should be pro-actively managed and assessed by firms and
      concentrated positions should be routinely reported to senior management.



20.22 Banks should design their risk management systems, including the VaR
      methodology and stress tests, to properly measure the material risks in
      instruments they trade as well as the trading strategies they pursue. As their
       instruments and trading strategies change, the VaR methodologies and stress
       tests should also evolve to accommodate the changes.

20.23 Banks must demonstrate how they combine their risk measurement approaches
      to arrive at the overall internal capital for market risk.

20.24 Interest rate risk in the banking book: the measurement process should include
      all material interest rate positions of the bank and consider all relevant repricing
      and maturity data. Such information will generally include current balance and
      contractual rate of interest associated with the instruments and portfolios,
      principal payments, interest reset dates, maturities, the rate index used for
      repricing, and contractual interest rate ceilings or floors for adjustable-rate items.
      The system should also have well-documented assumptions and techniques.

20.25 Regardless of the type and level of complexity of the measurement system used,
      bank management should ensure the adequacy and completeness of the system.
      Because the quality and reliability of the measurement system is largely
      dependent on the quality of the data and various assumptions used in the model,
      management should give particular attention to these items.

20.26 Liquidity risk: liquidity is crucial to the ongoing viability of any banking
      organisation. Banks’ capital positions can have an effect on their ability to obtain
      liquidity, especially in a crisis. Each bank must have adequate systems for
      measuring, monitoring and controlling liquidity risk. Banks should evaluate the
      adequacy of capital given their own liquidity profile and the liquidity of the
      markets in which they operate.

20.27 Other risks: although the Committee recognises that “other” risks, such as
      reputational and strategic risk, are not easily measurable, it expects industry to
      further develop techniques for managing all aspects of these risks.


Monitoring and reporting

20.28 The bank should establish an adequate system for monitoring and reporting risk
      exposures and assessing how the bank’s changing risk profile affects the need for
      capital. The bank’s senior management or board of directors should, on a regular
      basis, receive reports on the bank’s risk profile and capital needs. These reports
      should allow senior management to:

       (1) evaluate the level and trend of material risks and their effect on capital levels;


       (2) evaluate the sensitivity and reasonableness of key assumptions used in the
           capital assessment measurement system;

       (3) determine that the bank holds sufficient capital against the various risks and
           is in compliance with established capital adequacy goals; and

       (4) assess its future capital requirements based on the bank’s reported risk
           profile and make necessary adjustments to the bank’s strategic plan
           accordingly.


Internal control review

20.29 The bank’s internal control structure is essential to the capital assessment
      process. Effective control of the capital assessment process includes an
      independent review and, where appropriate, the involvement of internal or
      external audits. The bank’s board of directors has a responsibility to ensure that
      management establishes a system for assessing the various risks, develops a
      system to relate risk to the bank’s capital level, and establishes a method for
      monitoring compliance with internal policies. The board should regularly verify
      whether its system of internal controls is adequate to ensure well-ordered and
      prudent conduct of business.

20.30 The bank should conduct periodic reviews of its risk management process to
      ensure its integrity, accuracy, and reasonableness. Areas that should be reviewed
      include:

       (1) appropriateness of the bank’s capital assessment process given the nature,
           scope and complexity of its activities;

       (2) identification of large exposures and risk concentrations;

       (3) accuracy and completeness of data inputs into the bank’s assessment
           process;

       (4) reasonableness and validity of scenarios used in the assessment process; and

       (5) stress testing and analysis of assumptions and inputs.




Principle 2 – supervisory review of banks’ internal capital adequacy
assessments
20.31 The supervisory authorities should regularly review the process by which a bank
      assesses its capital adequacy, risk position, resulting capital levels, and quality of
      capital held. Supervisors should also evaluate the degree to which a bank has in
      place a sound internal process to assess capital adequacy. The emphasis of the
      review should be on the quality of the bank’s risk management and controls and
      should not result in supervisors functioning as bank management. The periodic
      review can involve some combination of:

       (1) on-site examinations or inspections;

       (2) off-site review;

       (3) discussions with bank management;

       (4) review of work done by external auditors (provided it is adequately focused
           on the necessary capital issues); and

       (5) periodic reporting.

20.32 The substantial impact that errors in the methodology or assumptions of formal
      analyses can have on resulting capital requirements requires a detailed review by
      supervisors of each bank’s internal analysis.

20.33 Supervisors should assess the degree to which internal targets and processes
      incorporate the full range of material risks faced by the bank. Supervisors should
      also review the adequacy of risk measures used in assessing internal capital
      adequacy and the extent to which these risk measures are also used operationally
      in setting limits, evaluating business line performance, and evaluating and
      controlling risks more generally. Supervisors should consider the results of
      sensitivity analyses and stress tests conducted by the institution and how these
      results relate to capital plans.

20.34 Supervisors should review the bank’s processes to determine that:

       (1) target levels of capital chosen are comprehensive and relevant to the current
           operating environment;

       (2) these levels are properly monitored and reviewed by senior management;
           and

       (3) the composition of capital is appropriate for the nature and scale of the bank’
           s business.




20.35 Supervisors should also consider the extent to which the bank has provided for
      unexpected events in setting its capital levels. This analysis should cover a wide
      range of external conditions and scenarios, and the sophistication of techniques
      and stress tests used should be commensurate with the bank’s activities.

20.36 Supervisors should consider the quality of the bank’s management information
      reporting and systems, the manner in which business risks and activities are
      aggregated, and management’s record in responding to emerging or changing
      risks.

20.37 In all instances, the capital level at an individual bank should be determined
      according to the bank’s risk profile and adequacy of its risk management process
      and internal controls. External factors such as business cycle effects and the
      macroeconomic environment should also be considered.

20.38 In order for certain internal methodologies, credit risk mitigation techniques and
      asset securitisations to be recognised for regulatory capital purposes, banks will
      need to meet a number of requirements, including risk management standards
      and disclosures. In particular, banks will be required to disclose features of their
      internal methodologies used in calculating minimum capital requirements. As
      part of the supervisory review process, supervisors must ensure that these
      conditions are being met on an ongoing basis.

20.39 The Committee regards this review of minimum standards and qualifying criteria
      as an integral part of the supervisory review process under Principle 2. In setting
      the minimum criteria the Committee has considered current industry practice and
      so anticipates that these minimum standards will provide supervisors with a
      useful set of benchmarks that are aligned with bank management expectations
      for effective risk management and capital allocation.

20.40 There is also an important role for supervisory review of compliance with certain
      conditions and requirements set for standardised approaches. In this context,
      there will be a particular need to ensure that use of various instruments that can
      reduce Pillar 1 capital requirements are utilised and understood as part of a
      sound, tested, and properly documented risk management process.

20.41 Having carried out the review process described above, supervisors should take
      appropriate action if they are not satisfied with the results of the bank’s own risk
      assessment and capital allocation. Supervisors should consider a range of actions,
      such as those set out under Principles 3 and 4 below.



Principle 3 – banks should operate above minimum regulatory capital
ratios
20.42 Pillar 1 capital requirements will include a buffer for uncertainties surrounding the
      Pillar 1 regime that affect the banking population as a whole. Bank-specific
      uncertainties will be treated under Pillar 2. It is anticipated that such buffers
      under Pillar 1 will be set to provide reasonable assurance that a bank with good
      internal systems and controls, a well-diversified risk profile and a business profile
      well covered by the Pillar 1 regime, and which operates with capital equal to Pillar
      1 requirements, will meet the minimum goals for soundness embodied in Pillar 1.
      However, supervisors will need to consider whether the particular features of the
      markets for which they are responsible are adequately covered. Supervisors will
      typically require (or encourage) banks to operate with a buffer, over and above
      the Pillar 1 standard. Banks should maintain this buffer for a combination of the
      following:

       (1) Pillar 1 minimums are anticipated to be set to achieve a level of bank
           creditworthiness in markets that is below the level of creditworthiness
           sought by many banks for their own reasons. For example, most
           international banks appear to prefer to be highly rated by internationally
           recognised rating agencies. Thus, banks are likely to choose to operate
           above Pillar 1 minimums for competitive reasons.

       (2) In the normal course of business, the type and volume of activities will
           change, as will the different risk exposures, causing fluctuations in the overall
           capital ratio.

       (3) It may be costly for banks to raise additional capital, especially if this needs
           to be done quickly or at a time when market conditions are unfavourable.

       (4) For banks to fall below minimum regulatory capital requirements is a serious
           matter. It may place banks in breach of the relevant law and/or prompt non-
           discretionary corrective action on the part of supervisors.

       (5) There may be risks, either specific to individual banks, or more generally to
           an economy at large, that are not taken into account in Pillar 1.

20.43 There are several means available to supervisors for ensuring that individual
      banks are operating with adequate levels of capital. Among other methods, the
      supervisor may set trigger and target capital ratios or define categories above
      minimum ratios (eg well capitalised and adequately capitalised) for identifying
      the capitalisation level of the bank.



Principle 4 – early supervisory intervention
20.44 Supervisors should consider a range of options if they become concerned that a
      bank is not meeting the requirements embodied in the supervisory principles
      outlined above. These actions may include intensifying the monitoring of the
      bank, restricting the payment of dividends, requiring the bank to prepare and
      implement a satisfactory capital adequacy restoration plan, and requiring the
      bank to raise additional capital immediately. Supervisors should have the
      discretion to use the tools best suited to the circumstances of the bank and its
      operating environment.

20.45 The permanent solution to banks’ difficulties is not always increased capital.
      However, some of the required measures (such as improving systems and
      controls) may take a period of time to implement. Therefore, increased capital
      might be used as an interim measure while permanent measures to improve the
      bank’s position are being put in place. Once these permanent measures have
      been put in place and have been seen by supervisors to be effective, the interim
      increase in capital requirements can be removed.




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                        1061/1626
                                 SRP30
                                 Risk management
                                 The risk management principles in this chapter
                                 reinforce how banks should manage and
                                 mitigate their risks that are identified through
                                 the Pillar 2 process.


                                


Introduction
30.1   Sound risk management processes are necessary to support supervisory and
       market participants’ confidence in banks’ assessments of their risk profiles and
       internal capital adequacy assessments. These processes take on particular
       importance in light of the identification, measurement and aggregation
       challenges arising from increasingly complex on- and off-balance sheet
       exposures.

30.2   When assessing whether a bank is appropriately capitalised, bank management
       should ensure that it properly identifies and measures the risks to which the bank
       is exposed. A financial institution’s internal capital adequacy assessment process
       (ICAAP) should be conducted on a consolidated basis and, when deemed
       necessary by the appropriate supervisors, at the legal entity level for each bank in
       the group. In addition, the ICAAP should incorporate stress testing to
       complement and help validate other quantitative and qualitative approaches so
       that bank management may have a more complete understanding of the bank’s
       risks and the interaction of those risks under stressed conditions. A bank should
       also perform a careful analysis of its capital instruments and their potential
       performance during times of stress, including their ability to absorb losses and
       support ongoing business operations. A bank’s ICAAP should address both short-
       and long-term needs and consider the prudence of building excess capital over
       benign periods of the credit cycle and also to withstand a severe and prolonged
       market downturn. Differences between the capital assessment under a bank’s
       ICAAP and the supervisory assessment of capital adequacy made under Pillar 2
       should trigger a dialogue that is proportionate to the depth and nature of such
       differences.


  The ICAAP is a bank-driven process that should leverage off an
                   institution’s internal risk management processes. A single ICAAP may
                   be used for internal and regulatory purposes.



30.3   Pillar 1 capital requirements represent minimum requirements. All of a bank’s
       risks – both on- and off-balance sheet, and particularly those risks related to
       complex capital market activities – should be adequately covered by capital,
       including through Pillar 2 in excess of minimum Pillar 1 requirements. This will
       help ensure that a bank maintains sufficient capital for risks not adequately
       addressed through Pillar 1 and that it will be able to operate effectively
       throughout a severe and prolonged period of financial market stress or an
       adverse credit cycle. This should, in part, include drawing down on the capital
       buffer built-up during good times. While all banks must comply with the
       minimum capital requirements during and after such stress events, it is
       imperative that systemically important banks have the shock absorption
       capability to adequately protect against severe stress events.

30.4   The detail and sophistication of a bank’s risk management programmes should
       be commensurate with the size and complexity of its business and the overall
       level of risk that the bank accepts. This guidance, therefore, should be applied to
       banks on a proportionate basis.

30.5   Supervisors should determine whether a bank has in place a sound firm-wide risk
       management framework that enables it to define its risk appetite and recognise
       all material risks, including the risks posed by concentrations, securitisation, off-
       balance sheet exposures, valuation practices and other risk exposures. The bank
       can achieve this by:

       (1) adequately identifying, measuring, monitoring, controlling and mitigating
           these risks;

       (2) clearly communicating the extent and depth of these risks in an easily
           understandable, but accurate, manner in reports to senior management and
           the board of directors, as well as in published financial reports;

       (3) conducting ongoing stress testing to identify potential losses and liquidity
           needs under adverse circumstances; and

       (4) setting adequate minimum internal standards for allowances or liabilities for
           losses, capital, and contingency funding.

30.6   These elements should be adequately incorporated into a bank’s risk
       management system and ICAAP specifically since they are not fully captured by
       Pillar 1 of the Basel III framework.


Firm-wide risk oversight
30.7   A sound risk management system should have the following key features:




       (1) active board and senior management oversight;

       (2) appropriate policies, procedures and limits;

       (3) comprehensive and timely identification, measurement, mitigation,
           controlling, monitoring and reporting of risks;

       (4) appropriate management information systems (MIS) at the business and
           firm-wide level; and

       (5) comprehensive internal controls.

30.8   It is the responsibility of the board of directors and senior management to
       define the institution’s risk appetite and to ensure that the bank’s risk
       management framework includes detailed policies that set specific firm-wide
       prudential limits on the bank’s activities, which are consistent with its risk taking
       appetite and capacity. In order to determine the overall risk appetite, the board
       and senior management must first have an understanding of risk exposures on a
       firm-wide basis. To achieve this understanding, the appropriate members of
       senior management must bring together the perspectives of the key business
       and control functions. In order to develop an integrated firm-wide perspective on
       risk, senior management must overcome organisational silos between business
       lines and share information on market developments, risks and risk mitigation
       techniques. As the banking industry has moved increasingly towards market-
       based intermediation, there is a greater probability that many areas of a bank
       may be exposed to a common set of products, risk factors or counterparties.
       Senior management should establish a risk management process that is not
       limited to credit, market, liquidity and operational risks, but incorporates all
       material risks. This includes reputational, legal and strategic risks, as well as risks
       that do not appear to be significant in isolation, but when combined with other
       risks could lead to material losses.




 This refers to a management structure composed of a board of
                   directors and senior management. The Committee is aware that there
                   are significant differences in legislative and regulatory frameworks
                   across countries as regards the functions of the board of directors and
                   senior management. In some countries, the board has the main, if not
                   exclusive, function of supervising the executive body (senior
                   management, general management) so as to ensure that the latter
                   fulfils its tasks. For this reason, in some cases, it is known as a
                   supervisory board. This means that the board has no executive
                   functions. In other countries, by contrast, the board has a broader
                   competence in that it lays down the general framework for the
                   management of the bank. Owing to these differences, the notions of
                   the board of directors and senior management are used in this paper
                   not to identify legal constructs but rather to label two decision-making
                   functions within a bank.


30.9   The board of directors and senior management should possess sufficient
       knowledge of all major business lines to ensure that appropriate policies, controls
       and risk monitoring systems are effective. They should have the necessary
       expertise to understand the capital markets activities in which the bank is
       involved – such as securitisation and off-balance sheet activities – and the
       associated risks. The board and senior management should remain informed on
       an on-going basis about these risks as financial markets, risk management
       practices and the bank’s activities evolve. In addition, the board and senior
       management should ensure that accountability and lines of authority are clearly
       delineated. With respect to new or complex products and activities, senior
       management should understand the underlying assumptions regarding business
       models, valuation and risk management practices. In addition, senior
       management should evaluate the potential risk exposure if those assumptions fail.

30.10 Before embarking on new activities or introducing products new to the
      institution, the board and senior management should identify and review the
      changes in firm-wide risks arising from these potential new products or activities
      and ensure that the infrastructure and internal controls necessary to manage the
      related risks are in place. In this review, a bank should also consider the possible
      difficulty in valuing the new products and how they might perform in a stressed
      economic environment.




30.11 A bank’s risk function and its chief risk officer or equivalent position should be
      independent of the individual business lines and report directly to the chief
      executive officer and the institution’s board of directors. In addition, the risk
      function should highlight to senior management and the board risk management
      concerns, such as risk concentrations and violations of risk appetite limits.

30.12 Firm-wide risk management programmes should include detailed policies that set
      specific firm-wide prudential limits on the principal risks relevant to a bank’s
      activities. A bank’s policies and procedures should provide specific guidance for
      the implementation of broad business strategies and should establish, where
      appropriate, internal limits for the various types of risk to which the bank may be
      exposed. These limits should consider the bank’s role in the financial system and
      be defined in relation to the bank’s capital, total assets, earnings or, where
      adequate measures exist, its overall risk level.

30.13 A bank’s policies, procedures and limits should:

       (1) provide for adequate and timely identification, measurement, monitoring,
           control and mitigation of the risks posed by its lending, investing, trading,
           securitisation, off-balance sheet, fiduciary and other significant activities at
           the business line and firm-wide levels;

       (2) ensure that the economic substance of a bank’s risk exposures, including
           reputational risk and valuation uncertainty, are fully recognised and
           incorporated into the bank’s risk management processes;

       (3) be consistent with the bank’s stated goals and objectives, as well as its
           overall financial strength;

       (4) clearly delineate accountability and lines of authority across the bank’s
           various business activities, and ensure there is a clear separation between
           business lines and the risk function;

       (5) escalate and address breaches of internal position limits;

       (6) provide for the review of new businesses and products by bringing together
           all relevant risk management, control and business lines to ensure that the
           bank is able to manage and control the activity prior to it being initiated; and

       (7) include a schedule and process for reviewing the policies, procedures and
           limits and for updating them as appropriate.





30.14 A bank’s MIS should provide the board and senior management in a clear and
      concise manner with timely and relevant information concerning their
      institutions’ risk profile. This information should include all risk exposures,
      including those that are off-balance sheet. Management should understand the
      assumptions behind and limitations inherent in specific risk measures.

30.15 The key elements necessary for the aggregation of risks are an appropriate
      infrastructure and MIS that:

       (1) allow for the aggregation of exposures and risk measures across business
           lines and

       (2) support customised identification of concentrations (see SRP30.20 to SRP30.
           28 on risk concentrations) and emerging risks.

30.16 A bank’s MIS should be capable of capturing limit breaches and there should be
      procedures in place to promptly report such breaches to senior management, as
      well as to ensure that appropriate follow-up actions are taken. For instance,
      similar exposures should be aggregated across business platforms (including the
      banking and trading books) to determine whether there is a concentration or a
      breach of an internal position limit.

30.17 MIS developed to achieve this objective should support the ability to evaluate the
      impact of various types of economic and financial shocks that affect the whole of
      the financial institution. Further, a bank’s systems should be flexible enough to
      incorporate hedging and other risk mitigation actions to be carried out on a firm-
      wide basis while taking into account the various related basis risks.

30.18 To enable proactive management of risk, the board and senior management
      need to ensure that MIS is capable of providing regular, accurate and timely
      information on the bank’s aggregate risk profile, as well as the main assumptions
      used for risk aggregation. MIS should be adaptable and responsive to changes in
      the bank’s underlying risk assumptions and should incorporate multiple
      perspectives of risk exposure to account for uncertainties in risk measurement. In
      addition, it should be sufficiently flexible so that the institution can generate
      forward-looking bank-wide scenario analyses that capture management’s
      interpretation of evolving market conditions and stressed conditions (see SRP30.
      45 to SRP30.47 on stress testing). Third-party inputs or other tools used within
      MIS (eg credit ratings, risk measures, models) should be subject to initial and
      ongoing validation.




30.19 Risk management processes should be frequently monitored and tested by
      independent control areas and internal, as well as external, auditors. The aim is
      to ensure that the information on which decisions are based is accurate so that
      processes fully reflect management policies and that regular reporting, including
      the reporting of limit breaches and other exception-based reporting, is
       undertaken effectively. The risk management function of banks must be
       independent of the business lines in order to ensure an adequate separation of
       duties and to avoid conflicts of interest.

See the Basel Committee’s paper Framework for Internal Control
                   Systems in Banking Organisations (September 1998).



Risk concentration
30.20 Unmanaged risk concentrations are an important cause of major problems in
      banks. A bank should aggregate all similar direct and indirect exposures
      regardless of where the exposures have been booked. A risk concentration is any
      single exposure or group of similar exposures (eg to the same borrower or
      counterparty, including protection providers, geographic area, industry or other
      risk factors) with the potential to produce (i) losses large enough (relative to a
      bank’s earnings, capital, total assets or overall risk level) to threaten a bank’s
      creditworthiness or ability to maintain its core operations or (ii) a material change
      in a bank’s risk profile. Risk concentrations should be analysed on both a bank
      legal entity and consolidated basis, as an unmanaged concentration at a
      subsidiary bank may appear immaterial at the consolidated level, but can
      nonetheless threaten the viability of the subsidiary organisation.

30.21 Risk concentrations should be viewed in the context of a single or a set of closely
      related risk-drivers that may have different impacts on a bank. These
      concentrations should be integrated when assessing a bank’s overall risk
      exposure. A bank should consider concentrations that are based on common or
      correlated risk factors that reflect more subtle or more situation-specific factors
      than traditional concentrations, such as correlations between market, credit risks
      and liquidity risk.




30.22 The growth of market-based intermediation has increased the possibility that
      different areas of a bank are exposed to a common set of products, risk factors or
      counterparties. This has created new challenges for risk aggregation and
      concentration management. Through its risk management processes and MIS, a
      bank should be able to identify and aggregate similar risk exposures across the
      firm, including across legal entities, asset types (eg loans, derivatives and
       structured products), risk areas (eg the trading book) and geographic regions.
       The typical situations in which risk concentrations can arise include:

       (1) exposures to a single counterparty, borrower or group of connected
           counterparties or borrowers;

       (2) industry or economic sectors, including exposures to both regulated and
           nonregulated financial institutions such as hedge funds and private equity
           firms;

       (3) geographical regions;

       (4) exposures arising from credit risk mitigation techniques, including exposure
           to similar collateral types or to a single or closely related credit protection
           provider;

       (5) trading exposures/market risk;

       (6) exposures to counterparties (eg hedge funds and hedge counterparties)
           through the execution or processing of transactions (either product or
           service);

       (7) funding sources;

       (8) assets that are held in the banking book or trading book, such as loans,
           derivatives and structured products; and

       (9) off-balance sheet exposures, including guarantees, liquidity lines and other
           commitments.

30.23 Risk concentrations can also arise through a combination of exposures across
      these broad categories. A bank should have an understanding of its firm-wide
      risk concentrations resulting from similar exposures across its different business
      lines. Examples of such business lines include subprime exposure in lending
      books; counterparty exposures; conduit exposures and structured investment
      vehicles (SIVs); contractual and non-contractual exposures; trading activities; and
      underwriting pipelines.




30.24 While risk concentrations often arise due to direct exposures to borrowers and
      obligors, a bank may also incur a concentration to a particular asset type

       indirectly through investments backed by such assets (eg collateralised debt
       obligations), as well as exposure to protection providers guaranteeing the
       performance of the specific asset type (eg monoline insurers). A bank should
       have in place adequate, systematic procedures for identifying high correlation
       between the creditworthiness of a protection provider and the obligors of the
       underlying exposures due to their performance being dependent on common
       factors beyond systematic risk (ie “wrong way risk”).

30.25 Procedures should be in place to communicate risk concentrations to the board
      of directors and senior management in a manner that clearly indicates where in
      the organisation each segment of a risk concentration resides. A bank should
      have credible risk mitigation strategies in place that have senior management
      approval. This may include altering business strategies, reducing limits or
      increasing capital buffers in line with the desired risk profile. While it implements
      risk mitigation strategies, the bank should be aware of possible concentrations
      that might arise as a result of employing risk mitigation techniques.

30.26 Banks should employ a number of techniques, as appropriate, to measure risk
      concentrations. These techniques include shocks to various risk factors; use of
      business level and firm-wide scenarios; and the use of integrated stress testing
      and economic capital models. Identified concentrations should be measured in a
      number of ways, including for example consideration of gross versus net
      exposures, use of notional amounts, and analysis of exposures with and without
      counterparty hedges. As set out in SRP30.13, a bank should establish internal
      position limits for concentrations to which it may be exposed. When conducting
      periodic stress tests (see SRP30.45 to SRP30.47), a bank should incorporate all
      major risk concentrations and identify and respond to potential changes in
      market conditions that could adversely impact their performance and capital
      adequacy.

30.27 The assessment of such risks under a bank’s ICAAP and the supervisory review
      process should not be a mechanical process, but one in which each bank
      determines, depending on its business model, its own specific vulnerabilities. An
      appropriate level of capital for risk concentrations should be incorporated in a
      bank’s ICAAP, as well as in Pillar 2 assessments. Each bank should discuss such
      issues with its supervisor.


30.28 A bank should have in place effective internal policies, systems and controls to
      identify, measure, monitor, manage, control and mitigate its risk concentrations in
      a timely manner. Not only should normal market conditions be considered, but
      also the potential build-up of concentrations under stressed market conditions,
      economic downturns and periods of general market illiquidity. In addition, the

       bank should assess scenarios that consider possible concentrations arising from
       contractual and non-contractual contingent claims. The scenarios should also
       combine the potential build-up of pipeline exposures together with the loss of
       market liquidity and a significant decline in asset values.


Reputational risk
30.29 Reputational risk can be defined as the risk arising from negative perception on
      the part of customers, counterparties, shareholders, investors, debt-holders,
      market analysts, other relevant parties or regulators that can adversely affect a
      bank’s ability to maintain existing, or establish new, business relationships and
      continued access to sources of funding (eg through the interbank or
      securitisation markets). Reputational risk is multidimensional and reflects the
      perception of other market participants. Furthermore, it exists throughout the
      organisation and exposure to reputational risk is essentially a function of the
      adequacy of the bank’s internal risk management processes, as well as the
      manner and efficiency with which management responds to external influences
      on bank-related transactions.

30.30 Reputational risk can lead to the provision of implicit support, which may give
      rise to credit, liquidity, market and legal risk – all of which can have a negative
      impact on a bank’s earnings, liquidity and capital position. A bank should identify
      potential sources of reputational risk to which it is exposed. These include the
      bank’s business lines, liabilities, affiliated operations, off-balance sheet vehicles
      and the markets in which it operates. The risks that arise should be incorporated
      into the bank’s risk management processes and appropriately addressed in its
      ICAAP and liquidity contingency plans.

30.31 Prior to the 2007 upheaval, many banks failed to recognise the reputational risk
      associated with their off-balance sheet vehicles. In stressed conditions some firms
      went beyond their contractual obligations to support their sponsored
      securitisations and off-balance sheet vehicles. A bank should incorporate the
      exposures that could give rise to reputational risk into its assessments of whether
      the requirements under the securitisation framework have been met and the
      potential adverse impact of providing implicit support.
30.32 Reputational risk may arise, for example, from a bank’s sponsorship of
      securitisation structures such as asset-backed commercial paper conduits and
      SIVs, as well as from the sale of credit exposures to securitisation trusts. It may
       also arise from a bank’s involvement in asset or funds management, particularly
       when financial instruments are issued by owned or sponsored entities and are
       distributed to the customers of the sponsoring bank. In the event that the
       instruments were not correctly priced or the main risk drivers not adequately
       disclosed, a sponsor may feel some responsibility to its customers, or be
       economically compelled, to cover any losses. Reputational risk also arises when a
       bank sponsors activities such as money market mutual funds, in-house hedge
       funds and real estate investment trusts. In these cases, a bank may decide to
       support the value of shares/units held by investors even though is not
       contractually required to provide the support.

30.33 Reputational risk also may affect a bank’s liabilities, since market confidence and
      a bank’s ability to fund its business are closely related to its reputation. For
      instance, to avoid damaging its reputation, a bank may call its liabilities even
      though this might negatively affect its liquidity profile. This is particularly true for
      liabilities that are components of regulatory capital, such as hybrid/subordinated
      debt. In such cases, a bank’s capital position is likely to suffer.

30.34 Bank management should have appropriate policies in place to identify sources
      of reputational risk when entering new markets, products or lines of activities. In
      addition, a bank’s stress testing procedures should take account of reputational
      risk so management has a firm understanding of the consequences and second
      round effects of reputational risk.

30.35 Once a bank identifies potential exposures arising from reputational concerns, it
      should measure the amount of support it might have to provide (including
      implicit support of securitisations) or losses it might experience under adverse
      market conditions. In particular, in order to avoid reputational damages and to
      maintain market confidence, a bank should develop methodologies to measure
      as precisely as possible the effect of reputational risk in terms of other risk types
      (eg credit, liquidity, market or operational risk) to which it may be exposed. This
      could be accomplished by including reputational risk scenarios in regular stress
      tests. For instance, non-contractual off-balance sheet exposures could be
      included in the stress tests to determine the effect on a bank’s credit, market and
      liquidity risk profiles. Methodologies also could include comparing the actual
      amount of exposure carried on the balance sheet versus the maximum exposure
      amount held off-balance sheet, that is, the potential amount to which the bank
      could be exposed.




30.36 A bank should pay particular attention to the effects of reputational risk on its
      overall liquidity position, taking into account both possible increases in the asset
      side of the balance sheet and possible restrictions on funding, should the loss of
       reputation result in various counterparties’ loss of confidence (see SRP30.48 to
       SRP30.52 on the management of liquidity risk).


Valuation practices
30.37 In order to enhance the supervisory assessment of banks’ valuation practices, the
      Basel Committee published Supervisory guidance for assessing banks’ financial
      instrument fair value practices in April 2009. This guidance applies to all
      positions that are measured at fair value and at all times, not only during times of
      stress.


  See also the Basel Committee’s paper Fair value measurement and
                   modelling: an assessment of challenges and lessons learned from the
                   market stress, May 2008.


30.38 The characteristics of complex structured products, including securitisation
      transactions, make their valuation inherently difficult due, in part, to the absence
      of active and liquid markets, the complexity and uniqueness of the cash
      waterfalls, and the links between valuations and underlying risk factors. The
      absence of a transparent price from a liquid market means that the valuation
      must rely on models or proxy-pricing methodologies, as well as on expert
      judgment. The outputs of such models and processes are highly sensitive to the
      inputs and parameter assumptions adopted, which may themselves be subject to
      estimation error and uncertainty. Moreover, calibration of the valuation
      methodologies is often complicated by the lack of readily available benchmarks.

30.39 Therefore, a bank is expected to have adequate governance structures and
      control processes for fair valuing exposures for risk management and financial
      reporting purposes. The valuation governance structures and related processes
      should be embedded in the overall governance structure of the bank, and
      consistent for both risk management and reporting purposes. The governance
      structures and processes are expected to explicitly cover the role of the board
      and senior management. In addition, the board should receive reports from
      senior management on the valuation oversight and valuation model performance
      issues that are brought to senior management for resolution, as well as all
      significant changes to valuation policies.




30.40

        A bank should also have clear and robust governance structures for the
        production, assignment and verification of financial instrument valuations.
        Policies should ensure that the approvals of all valuation methodologies are well
        documented. In addition, policies and procedures should set forth the range of
        acceptable practices for the initial pricing, marking-to-market/model, valuation
        adjustments and periodic independent revaluation. New product approval
        processes should include all internal stakeholders relevant to risk measurement,
        risk control, and the assignment and verification of valuations of financial
        instruments.

30.41 A bank’s control processes for measuring and reporting valuations should be
      consistently applied across the firm and integrated with risk measurement and
      management processes. In particular, valuation controls should be applied
      consistently across similar instruments (risks) and consistent across business lines
      (books). These controls should be subject to internal audit. Regardless of the
      booking location of a new product, reviews and approval of valuation
      methodologies must be guided by a minimum set of considerations.
      Furthermore, the valuation/new product approval process should be supported
      by a transparent, well-documented inventory of acceptable valuation
      methodologies that are specific to products and businesses.

30.42 In order to establish and verify valuations for instruments and transactions in
      which it engages, a bank must have adequate capacity, including during periods
      of stress. This capacity should be commensurate with the importance, riskiness
      and size of these exposures in the context of the business profile of the
      institution. In addition, for those exposures that represent material risk, a bank is
      expected to have the capacity to produce valuations using alternative methods in
      the event that primary inputs and approaches become unreliable, unavailable or
      not relevant due to market discontinuities or illiquidity. A bank must test and
      review the performance of its models under stress conditions so that it
      understands the limitations of the models under stress conditions.




30.43 The relevance and reliability of valuations is directly related to the quality and
      reliability of the inputs. A bank is expected to apply the accounting guidance
      provided to determine the relevant market information and other factors likely to
      have a material effect on an instrument's fair value when selecting the
      appropriate inputs to use in the valuation process. Where values are determined
      to be in an active market, a bank should maximise the use of relevant observable
      inputs and minimise the use of unobservable inputs when estimating fair value
      using a valuation technique. However, where a market is deemed inactive,
      observable inputs or transactions may not be relevant, such as in a forced
      liquidation or distress sale, or transactions may not be observable, such as when
      markets are inactive. In such cases, accounting fair value guidance provides

       assistance on what should be considered, but may not be determinative. In
       assessing whether a source is reliable and relevant, a bank should consider,
       among other things:

       (1) the frequency and availability of the prices/quotes;

       (2) whether those prices represent actual regularly occurring transactions on an
           arm's length basis;

       (3) the breadth of the distribution of the data and whether it is generally
           available to the relevant participants in the market;

       (4) the timeliness of the information relative to the frequency of valuations;

       (5) the number of independent sources that produce the quotes/prices;

       (6) whether the quotes/prices are supported by actual transactions;

       (7) the maturity of the market; and

       (8) the similarity between the financial instrument sold in a transaction and the
           instrument held by the institution.

30.44 A bank’s external reporting should provide timely, relevant, reliable and decision-
      useful information that promotes transparency. Senior management should
      consider whether disclosures around valuation uncertainty can be made more
      meaningful. For instance, the bank may describe the modelling techniques and
      the instruments to which they are applied; the sensitivity of fair values to
      modelling inputs and assumptions; and the impact of stress scenarios on
      valuations. A bank should regularly review its disclosure policies to ensure that
      the information disclosed continues to be relevant to its business model and
      products and to current market conditions.




Sound stress testing practices
30.45 Stress testing is a critical element of risk management for banks and a core tool
      for banking supervisors and macroprudential authorities. It is integral to banks’
      risk management and banking supervision, in that stress testing alerts bank
      management and supervisory authorities to unexpected adverse outcomes
      related to a broad variety of risks, and provides an indication to banks and
      supervisory authorities of the financial resources that might be needed to absorb
      losses should large shocks occur.

30.46 Stress testing practices have evolved significantly over time. The increasing
      importance of stress testing, combined with a significant range of approaches
      adopted by supervisory authorities and banks, highlight the need for high-level
      principles to guide all elements of a sound stress testing framework. To this end,
      the Committee has in place Stress testing principles that cover sound stress
      testing practices for application to large, internationally active banks and to
      supervisory and other relevant financial authorities in Basel Committee member
      jurisdictions. These principles are set at a high level so that they may be
      applicable across many banks and jurisdictions and to help ensure their relevance
      as stress testing practices evolve over time. The Principles set out guidance that
      focuses on the core elements of stress testing frameworks, such as objectives,
      governance, policies, processes, methodology, resources, and documentation
      that may guide stress testing activities and facilitate their use, implementation
      and oversight. Nevertheless, the Basel Committee expects that for internationally
      active banks, stress testing is embedded as a critical component of sound risk
      management and supervisory oversight.

 Stress testing principles, Basel Committee on Banking Supervision,
                   October 2018, available at www.bis.org/bcbs/publ/d450.htm .


30.47 The principles are intended to be applied on a proportionate basis, depending on
      size, complexity and risk profile of the bank or banking sector for which the
      authority is responsible. This recognises that smaller banks and authorities in all
      jurisdictions can benefit from considering in a structured way the potential
      impact of adverse scenarios on their business, even if they are not using a formal
      stress testing framework but are instead using simpler methods.




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                           1077/1626
Liquidity risk management
30.48 A bank should both assiduously manage its liquidity risk and also maintain
      sufficient liquidity to withstand a range of stress events.


See also the Basel Committee’s Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk
                   Management and Supervision, September 2008.


30.49 A bank is expected to be able to thoroughly identify, measure and control
      liquidity risks, especially with regard to complex products and contingent
      commitments (both contractual and non-contractual). This process should involve
      the ability to project cash flows arising from assets, liabilities and off-balance
      sheet items over various time horizons, and should ensure diversification in both
      the tenor and source of funding. A bank should utilise early warning indicators to
      identify the emergence of increased risk or vulnerabilities in its liquidity position
      or funding needs. It should have the ability to control liquidity risk exposure and
      funding needs, regardless of its organisation structure, within and across legal
      entities, business lines, and currencies, taking into account any legal, regulatory
      and operational limitations to the transferability of liquidity.

30.50 A key element in the management of liquidity risk is the need for strong
      governance of liquidity risk, including the setting of a liquidity risk tolerance by
      the board. The risk tolerance should be communicated throughout the bank and
      reflected in the strategy and policies that senior management set to manage
      liquidity risk. Another facet of liquidity risk management is that a bank should
      appropriately price the costs, benefits and risks of liquidity into the internal
      pricing, performance measurement, and new product approval process of all
      significant business activities.


30.51 While banks typically manage liquidity under “normal” circumstances, they should
      also be prepared to manage liquidity under stressed conditions. A bank should
      perform stress tests or scenario analyses on a regular basis in order to identify
      and quantify their exposures to possible future liquidity stresses, analysing
      possible impacts on the institutions’ cash flows, liquidity positions, profitability,
      and solvency. The results of these stress tests should be discussed thoroughly by
      management, and based on this discussion, should form the basis for taking
      remedial or mitigating actions to limit the bank’s exposures, build up a liquidity
      cushion, and adjust its liquidity profile to fit its risk tolerance. The results of stress
      tests should also play a key role in shaping the bank’s contingency funding



       planning, which should outline policies for managing a range of stress events and
       clearly sets out strategies for addressing liquidity shortfalls in emergency
       situations.

30.52 Senior management should consider the relationship between liquidity and
      capital since liquidity risk can impact capital adequacy which, in turn, can
      aggravate a bank’s liquidity profile.



                                 SRP31
                                 Interest rate risk in the
                                 banking book
                                 This chapter describes requirements on
                                 assessing interest rate risk in the banking book,
                                 ie the current or prospective risk to a bank's
                                 capital and to its earnings, arising from the
                                 impact of adverse movements in interest rates
                                 on its banking book. Due to the heterogeneous
                                 nature of this risk, it is captured in Pillar 2.


                                 Definition of IRRBB
31.1   Interest rate risk in the banking book (IRRBB) refers to the current or prospective
       risk to the bank’s capital and earnings arising from adverse movements in interest
       rates that affect the bank’s banking book positions. When interest rates change,
       the present value and timing of future cash flows change. This in turn changes
       the underlying value of a bank’s assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items and
       hence its economic value. Changes in interest rates also affect a bank’s earnings
       by altering interest rate-sensitive income and expenses, affecting its net interest
       income (NII). Excessive IRRBB can pose a significant threat to a bank’s current
       capital base and/or future earnings if not managed appropriately. A more
       detailed description of IRRBB and its management techniques can be found in
       SRP98.

31.2   Three main sub-types of IRRBB are defined for the purposes of this chapter. All
       three sub-types of IRRBB potentially change the price/value or earnings/costs of
       interest rate-sensitive assets, liabilities and/or off-balance sheet items in a way, or
       at a time, that can adversely affect a bank’s financial condition.

       (1) Gap risk arises from the term structure of banking book instruments, and
           describes the risk arising from the timing of instruments’ rate changes. The
           extent of gap risk depends on whether changes to the term structure of
           interest rates occur consistently across the yield curve (parallel risk) or
           differentially by period (non-parallel risk).

       (2) Basis risk describes the impact of relative changes in interest rates for
           financial instruments that have similar tenors but are priced using different
           interest rate indices.

       (3) Option risk arises from option derivative positions or from optional elements
           embedded in a bank’s assets, liabilities and/or off-balance sheet items,
           where the bank or its customer can alter the level and timing of their cash
           flows. Option risk can be further characterised into automatic option risk and
           behavioural option risk.

31.3   While the three sub-types listed above are directly linked to IRRBB, credit spread
       risk in the banking book (CSRBB) is a related risk that banks need to monitor and
       assess in their interest rate risk management framework. CSRBB refers to any kind
       of asset/liability spread risk of credit-risky instruments that is not explained by
       IRRBB and by the expected credit/jump to default risk.



Principles for banks and supervisors on interest rate risk
31.4   The following principles define supervisory expectations on the management of
       IRRBB. Principles 1 to 7 are of general application for the management of IRRBB,
       covering expectations for a bank’s IRRBB management process, in particular the
       need for effective IRRBB identification, measurement, monitoring and control
       activities. Principles 8 and 9 set out the expectations for market disclosures and
       banks’ internal assessment of capital adequacy for IRRBB respectively.
       Principles 10 to 12 address the supervisory approach to banks’ IRRBB
       management framework and capital adequacy.

       (1) IRRBB is an important risk for all banks that must be specifically identified,
           measured, monitored and controlled. In addition, banks should monitor and
           assess CSRBB.

       (2) The governing body of each bank is responsible for oversight of the IRRBB
           management framework, and the bank’s risk appetite for IRRBB. Monitoring
           and management of IRRBB may be delegated by the governing body to
           senior management, expert individuals or an asset and liability management
           committee (henceforth, its delegates). Banks must have an adequate IRRBB
           management framework, involving regular independent reviews and
           evaluations of the effectiveness of the system.

       (3) The banks’ risk appetite for IRRBB should be articulated in terms of the risk
           to both economic value and earnings. Banks must implement policy limits
           that target maintaining IRRBB exposures consistent with their risk appetite.

       (4) Measurement of IRRBB should be based on outcomes of both economic
           value and earnings-based measures, arising from a wide and appropriate
           range of interest rate shock and stress scenarios.

       (5) In measuring IRRBB, key behavioural and modelling assumptions should be
           fully understood, conceptually sound and documented. Such assumptions
           should be rigorously tested and aligned with the bank’s business strategies.

       (6) Measurement systems and models used for IRRBB should be based on
           accurate data, and subject to appropriate documentation, testing and
           controls to give assurance on the accuracy of calculations. Models used to
           measure IRRBB should be comprehensive and covered by governance
           processes for model risk management, including a validation function that is
           independent of the development process.



       (7) Measurement outcomes of IRRBB and hedging strategies should be reported
           to the governing body or its delegates on a regular basis, at relevant levels
           of aggregation (by consolidation level and currency).

       (8) Information on the level of IRRBB exposure and practices for measuring and
           controlling IRRBB must be disclosed to the public on a regular basis.

       (9) Capital adequacy for IRRBB must be specifically considered as part of the
           Internal Capital Adequacy Assessment Process (ICAAP) approved by the
           governing body, in line with the bank’s risk appetite on IRRBB.

       (10) Supervisors should, on a regular basis, collect sufficient information from
            banks to be able to monitor trends in banks’ IRRBB exposures, assess the
            soundness of banks’ IRRBB management and identify outlier banks that
            should be subject to review and/or should be expected to hold additional
            regulatory capital.

       (11) Supervisors should regularly assess banks’ IRRBB and the effectiveness of
            the approaches that banks use to identify, measure, monitor and control
            IRRBB. Supervisory authorities should employ specialist resources to assist
            with such assessments. Supervisors should cooperate and share information
            with relevant supervisors in other jurisdictions regarding the supervision of
            banks’ IRRBB exposures.

       (12) Supervisors must publish their criteria for identifying outlier banks. Banks
            identified as outliers must be considered as potentially having undue
            IRRBB. When a review of a bank’s IRRBB exposure reveals inadequate
            management or excessive risk relative to capital, earnings or general risk
            profile, supervisors must require mitigation actions and/or additional capital.

31.5   The implementation of these principles should be commensurate with the bank’s
       nature, size and complexity as well as its structure, economic significance and
       general risk profile. This requires that supervisors gauge their responses where
       appropriate for banks with low IRRBB profiles. In particular, supervisors will focus
       on systemic risks that are inherent in large, complex or internationally active
       banks.




Principle 1 – identification and monitoring of IRRBB
31.6   IRRBB is an important risk that arises from banking activities, and is encountered
       by all banks. It arises because interest rates can vary significantly over time, while
       the business of banking typically involves intermediation activity that produces
       exposures to both maturity mismatch (eg long-maturity assets funded by short-
       maturity liabilities) and rate mismatch (eg fixed rate loans funded by variable rate
       deposits). In addition, there are optionalities embedded in many of the common
       banking products (eg non-maturity deposits, term deposits, fixed rate loans) that
       are triggered in accordance with changes in interest rates.

31.7   All banks must be familiar with all elements of IRRBB, actively identify their IRRBB
       exposures and take appropriate steps to measure, monitor and control it.

31.8   Banks must identify the IRRBB inherent in products and activities, and ensure that
       these are subject to adequate procedures and controls. Significant hedging or
       risk management initiatives must be approved before being implemented.
       Products and activities that are new to a bank must undergo a careful
       preacquisition review to ensure that the IRRBB characteristics are well understood
       and subject to a predetermined test phase before being fully rolled out. Prior to
       introducing a new product, hedging or risk-taking strategy, adequate operational
       procedures and risk control systems must be in place. The management of a bank’
       s IRRBB should be integrated within its broader risk management framework and
       aligned with its business planning and budgeting activities.

31.9   In identifying, measuring, monitoring and controlling IRRBB, banks should also
       ensure that CSRBB is properly monitored and assessed.


Principle 2 – IRRBB management framework
31.10 The governing body has responsibility for understanding the nature and the
      level of the bank’s IRRBB exposure. The governing body should approve broad
      business strategies as well as overall policies with respect to IRRBB. It should
      ensure that there is clear guidance regarding the acceptable level of IRRBB, given
      the bank’s business strategies.

  This refers to the body that supervises management. The structure of
                   bank boards differs among countries. See the Corporate Governance
                   Principles for Banks published by the Committee in July 2015.




31.11

        Accordingly, the governing body is responsible for ensuring that steps are taken
        by the bank to identify, measure, monitor and control IRRBB consistent with the
        approved strategies and policies. More specifically, the governing body or its
        delegates are responsible for setting:

        (1) appropriate limits on IRRBB, including the definition of specific procedures
            and approvals necessary for exceptions, and ensuring compliance with those
            limits;

        (2) adequate systems and standards for measuring IRRBB;

        (3) standards for measuring IRRBB, valuing positions and assessing
            performance, including procedures for updating interest rate shock and
            stress scenarios and key underlying assumptions driving the institution’s
            IRRBB analysis;

        (4) a comprehensive IRRBB reporting and review process; and

        (5) effective internal controls and management information systems (MIS).

31.12 The governing body or its delegates should oversee the approval,
      implementation and review of IRRBB management policies, procedures and
      limits. The governing body should be informed regularly (at least semiannually)
      on the level and trend of the bank’s IRRBB exposures. It should regularly review
      timely information that is sufficiently detailed to allow it to understand and assess
      the performance of its delegates in monitoring and controlling IRRBB in
      compliance with policies approved by the governing body. Such reviews should
      be carried out more frequently when the bank runs significant IRRBB exposures
      or has positions in complex IRRBB instruments.

31.13 While governing body members do not need individually to have detailed
      technical knowledge of complex financial instruments, or of quantitative risk
      management techniques, they should understand the implications of the bank’s
      IRRBB strategies, including the potential linkages with and impact on market,
      liquidity, credit and operational risk. Some of the members should have sufficient
      technical knowledge to question and challenge the reports made to the
      governing body. Governing body members are responsible for ensuring that
      senior management has the capability and skills to understand IRRBB, and that
      adequate resources are devoted to IRRBB management.

31.14 Many governing bodies delegate the task for developing IRRBB policies and
      practices to senior management, expert individuals or an asset and liability
      management committee (ALCO). In the case of an ALCO, it should meet regularly
      and include representatives from each major department connected to IRRBB.



31.15 The governing body should clearly identify its delegates for managing IRRBB and,
      to avoid potential conflicts of interest, should ensure that there is adequate
      separation of responsibilities in key elements of the risk management process.
      Banks should have IRRBB identification, measurement, monitoring and control
      functions with clearly defined responsibilities that are sufficiently independent
      from risk-taking functions of the bank and that report IRRBB exposures directly to
      the governing body or its delegates.

31.16 The governing body’s delegates for IRRBB should include members with clear
      lines of authority over the units responsible for establishing and managing
      positions. There should be a clear communication channel to convey the
      delegates’ directives to these line units.

31.17 The governing body should ensure that the bank’s organisational structure
      enables its delegates to carry out their responsibilities, and facilitates effective
      decision-making and good governance. The governing body should encourage
      discussions between its members and its delegates – as well as between its
      delegates and others in the bank – regarding the IRRBB management process.
      The risk management and strategic planning areas of the bank should also
      communicate regularly to facilitate evaluations of risk arising from future business.

31.18 Banks should have adequate internal controls to ensure the integrity of their
      IRRBB management process. The internal controls should promote effective and
      efficient operations, reliable financial and regulatory reporting, and compliance
      with relevant laws, regulations and bank policies.

31.19 With regard to IRRBB control policies and procedures, banks should have
      appropriate approval processes, exposure limits, reviews and other mechanisms
      designed to provide a reasonable assurance that risk management objectives are
      being achieved.

31.20 In addition, banks should have in place regular evaluations and reviews of their
      internal control system and risk management processes. This includes ensuring
      that personnel comply with established policies and procedures. Such reviews
      should also address any significant changes that may affect the effectiveness of
      controls (including changes in market conditions, personnel, technology and
      structures of compliance with exposure limits), and ensure that there are
      appropriate escalation procedures for any exceeded limits. Banks should ensure
      that all such evaluations and reviews are conducted regularly by individuals and
      /or units that are independent of the function they are assigned to review. When
      revisions or enhancements to internal controls are warranted, there should be an
      internal review mechanism in place to ensure that these are implemented in a
      timely manner.


31.21

        Banks should have their IRRBB identification, measurement, monitoring and
        control processes reviewed by an independent auditing function (such as an
        internal or external auditor) on a regular basis. In such cases, reports written by
        internal/external auditors or other equivalent external parties (such as
        consultants) should be made available to relevant supervisory authorities.


Principle 3 – IRRBB risk appetite
31.22 Banks should have clearly defined risk appetite statements that are approved by
      the governing body and implemented through comprehensive risk appetite
      frameworks, ie policies and procedures for limiting and controlling IRRBB. The risk
      appetite framework should delineate delegated powers, lines of responsibility
      and accountability over IRRBB management decisions and should clearly define
      authorised instruments, hedging strategies and risk-taking opportunities. All
      IRRBB policies should be reviewed periodically (at least annually) and revised as
      needed.

A risk appetite statement is a written articulation of the aggregated
                    level and types of IRRBB exposures that a bank will accept, or avoid, in
                    order to achieve its business objectives.


31.23 Policy limits set by the governing bodies should be consistent with the bank’s
      overall approach for measuring IRRBB. Aggregate risk limits, clearly articulating
      the amount of IRRBB acceptable to the governing body, should be applied on a
      consolidated basis and, as appropriate, at the level of individual affiliates. Limits
      may be associated with specific scenarios of changes in interest rates and/or term
      structures, such as an increase or decrease of a particular size or a change in
      shape. The interest rate movements used in developing these limits should
      represent meaningful shock and stress situations, taking into account historical
      interest rate volatility and the time required by management to mitigate those
      risk exposures.



31.24 Policy limits should be appropriate to the nature, size, complexity and capital
      adequacy of the bank, as well as its ability to measure and manage its risks.
      Depending on the nature of a bank's activities and business model, sub-limits
      may also be identified for individual business units, portfolios, instrument types
      or specific instruments. The level of detail of risk limits should reflect the
      characteristics of the bank’s holdings, including the various sources of the bank’s
      IRRBB exposures. Banks with significant exposures to gap risk, basis risk or

       positions with explicit or embedded options should establish risk tolerances
       appropriate for these risks.

31.25 The governing body or its delegates should approve major hedging or risk-taking
      initiatives in advance of implementation. A dedicated set of risk limits should be
      developed to monitor the evolution of hedging strategies that rely on
      instruments such as derivatives, and to control mark-to-market risks in
      instruments that are accounted for at market value. Proposals to use new
      instrument types or new strategies (including hedging) should be assessed to
      ensure that the resources required to establish sound and effective IRRBB
      management of the product or activity have been identified, that the proposed
      activities are in line with the bank’s overall risk appetite, and procedures to
      identify, measure, monitor and control the risks of the proposed product or
      activity have been established.


 Positions related to internal risk transfers between the banking book
                   and the trading book should be properly documented.


31.26 There should be systems in place to ensure that positions that exceed, or are
      likely to exceed, limits defined by the governing body or its delegates should
      receive prompt management attention and be escalated without delay. There
      should be a clear policy on who will be informed, how the communication will
      take place and the actions which will be taken in response to an exception.

 Limits could be absolute in the sense that they should never be
                   exceeded or of whether, under specific circumstances, breaches of limits
                   can be tolerated for a predetermined short period of time.




Principle 4 – IRRBB measurement
31.27 Banks’ internal measurement systems (IMS) should capture all material sources of
      IRRBB and assess the effect of market changes on the scope of their activities. In
      addition to the impact of an interest rate shock on its economic value, a bank’s
      policy approach should take into account its ability to generate stable earnings
      sufficient to maintain its normal business operations.

31.28 Banks should pay attention to the complementary nature of economic value and
      earnings-based measures in their risk and internal capital assessments, in
      particular in terms of:

       (1) outcomes: economic value measures compute a change in the net present
           value of the bank’s assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items subject to
           specific interest rate shock and stress scenarios, while earnings-based
           measures focus on changes to future profitability within a given time horizon
           eventually affecting future levels of a bank’s own equity capital;

       (2) assessment horizons: economic value measures reflect changes in value over
           the remaining life of the bank’s assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items,
           ie until all positions have run off, while earnings-based measures cover only
           the short to medium term, and therefore do not fully capture those risks that
           will continue to impact profit and loss accounts beyond the period of
           estimation; and

       (3) future business/production: economic value measures consider the net
           present value of repricing cash flows of instruments on the bank’s balance
           sheet or accounted for as an off-balance sheet item (ie a run-off view).
           Earnings measures may, in addition to a run-off view, assume rollover of
           maturing items (ie a constant balance sheet view) and/or assess the scenario-
           consistent impact on the bank’s future earnings inclusive of future business
           (ie a dynamic view).
 A dynamic view can be useful for business planning and budgeting
                   purposes. However, dynamic approaches are dependent on key
                   variables and assumptions that are extremely difficult to project with
                   accuracy over an extended period and can potentially hide certain key
                   underlying risk exposures.



31.29 While the economic value and earnings-based measures share certain
      commonalities, the Committee observes that most commercial banks primarily
      utilise the latter for IRRBB management, whereas regulators tend to endorse the
       former as a benchmark for comparability and capital adequacy. The Committee
       acknowledges the importance of managing IRRBB through both economic value
       and earnings-based measures. If a bank solely minimises its economic value risk
       by matching the repricing of its assets with liabilities beyond the short term, it
       could run the risk of earnings volatility.

31.30 Banks’ IMS for IRRBB should be able to accommodate the calculation of the
      impact on economic value and earnings of multiple scenarios, based on:

       (1) internally selected interest rate shock scenarios addressing the bank’s risk
           profile, according to its ICAAP;

       (2) historical and hypothetical interest rate stress scenarios, which tend to be
           more severe than shock scenarios;

       (3) the six prescribed interest rate shock scenarios set out in SRP31.90 to SRP31.
           93; and

       (4) any additional interest rate shock scenarios required by supervisors.

31.31 Banks should measure their vulnerability to loss under stressful market conditions
      – including the breakdown of key assumptions – and consider those results when
      establishing and reviewing their policies and limits for IRRBB.

31.32 A bank should develop and implement an effective stress testing framework for
      IRRBB as part of its broader risk management and governance processes. This
      should feed into the decision-making process at the appropriate management
      level, including strategic decisions (eg business and capital planning decisions) of
      the governing body or its delegates. In particular, IRRBB stress testing should be
      considered in the ICAAP, requiring banks to undertake rigorous, forward-looking
      stress testing that identifies events of severe changes in market conditions which
      could adversely impact the bank’s capital or earnings, possibly also through
      changes in the behaviour of its customer base.


31.33 A bank’s stress testing framework for IRRBB should be commensurate with its
      nature, size and complexity as well as business activities and overall risk profile.
      The framework should include clearly defined objectives, scenarios tailored to the
      bank’s businesses and risks, well documented assumptions and sound
      methodologies. The framework will be used to assess the potential impact of the
      scenarios on the bank’s financial condition, enable ongoing and effective review
      processes for stress tests and recommend actions based on the stress test results.



       IRRBB stress tests should play an important role in the communication of risks,
       both within the bank and externally with supervisors and the market through
       appropriate disclosures.

31.34 The identification of relevant shock and stress scenarios for IRRBB, the application
      of sound modelling approaches and the appropriate use of the stress testing
      results require the collaboration of different experts within a bank (eg traders, the
      treasury department, the finance department, the ALCO, the risk management
      and risk control departments and/or the bank’s economists). A stress-testing
      programme for IRRBB should ensure that the opinions of the experts are taken
      into account.

31.35 Banks should determine, by currency, a range of potential interest rate
      movements against which they will measure their IRRBB exposures. Management
      should ensure that risk is measured under a reasonable range of potential
      interest rate scenarios, including some containing severe stress elements. In
      developing the scenarios, banks should consider a variety of factors, such as the
      shape and level of the current term structure of interest rates and the historical
      and implied volatility of interest rates. In low interest rate environments, banks
      should also consider negative interest rate scenarios and the possibility of
      asymmetrical effects of negative interest rates on their assets and liabilities.

31.36 A bank should consider the nature and sources of its IRRBB exposures, the time it
      would need to take action to reduce or unwind unfavourable IRRBB exposures,
      and its capability/willingness to withstand accounting losses in order to
      reposition its risk profile. A bank should select scenarios that provide meaningful
      estimates of risk and include a range of shocks that is sufficiently wide to allow
      the governing body or its delegates to understand the risk inherent in the bank’s
      products and activities. When developing interest rate shock and stress scenarios
      for IRRBB, banks should consider the following:

       (1) The scenarios should be sufficiently wide-ranging to identify parallel and
           non-parallel gap risk, basis risk and option risk. In many cases, static interest
           rate shocks may be insufficient to assess IRRBB exposure adequately. Banks
           should ensure that the scenarios are both severe and plausible, in light of the
           existing level of interest rates and the interest rate cycle.

       (2) Special consideration should be given to instruments or markets where
           concentrations exist, because those positions may be more difficult to
           liquidate or offset in a stressful market environment.

       (3) Banks should assess the possible interaction of IRRBB with its related risks, as
           well as other risks (eg credit risk, liquidity risk).

       (4) Banks should assess the effect of adverse changes in the spreads of new
           assets/liabilities replacing those assets/liabilities maturing over the horizon
           of the forecast on their NII.

       (5) Banks with significant option risk should include scenarios that capture the
           exercise of such options. For example, banks that have products with sold
           caps or floors should include scenarios that assess how the risk positions
           would change should those caps or floors move into the money. Given that
           the market value of options also fluctuates with changes in the volatility of
           interest rates, banks should develop interest rate assumptions to measure
           their IRRBB exposures to changes in interest rate volatilities.

       (6) Banks should specify, in building their interest rate shock and stress
           scenarios, the term structure of interest rates that will be incorporated and
           the basis relationship between yield curves, rate indices etc. Banks should
           also estimate how interest rates that are administered or managed by
           management (eg prime rates or retail deposit rates, as opposed to those that
           are purely market-driven) might change. Management should document
           how these assumptions are derived.

31.37 In addition, forward-looking scenarios should incorporate changes in portfolio
      composition due to factors under the control of the bank (eg the bank’s
      acquisition and production plans) as well as external factors (eg changing
      competitive, legal or tax environments); new products where only limited
      historical data are available; new market information and new emerging risks that
      are not necessarily covered by historical stress episodes.

31.38 Further, banks should perform qualitative and quantitative reverse stress tests in
      order to:

       (1) identify interest rate scenarios that could severely threaten a bank’s capital
           and earnings; and



      (2) reveal vulnerabilities arising from its hedging strategies and the potential
          behavioural reactions of its customers.


 See the Principles of sound stress testing practices and supervision
                  published by the Committee in October 2018.



Principle 5 – behavioural and modelling assumptions
31.39 Both economic value and earnings-based measures of IRRBB are significantly
      impacted by a number of assumptions made for the purposes of risk
      quantification, namely:

      (1) expectations for the exercise of interest rate options (explicit and embedded)
          by both the bank and its customers under specific interest rate shock and
          stress scenarios;

      (2) treatment of balances and interest flows arising from non-maturity deposits
          (NMDs);

      (3) treatment of own equity in economic value measures; and

      (4) the implications of accounting practices for IRRBB.

31.40 Hence, when assessing its IRRBB exposures, a bank should make judgments and
      assumptions about how an instrument’s actual maturity or repricing behaviour
      may vary from the instrument’s contractual terms because of behavioural
      optionalities.

31.41 Common products with behavioural optionalities include:

      (1) Fixed rate loans subject to prepayment risk – Banks should understand the
          nature of prepayment risk for their portfolios and make reasonable and
          prudent estimates of the expected prepayments. The assumptions
          underlying the estimates and where prepayment penalties or other
          contractual features affect the embedded optionality effect should be
          documented. There are several factors that are important determinants of
          the bank’s estimate of the effect of each interest rate shock and stress
          scenario on the average prepayment speed. Specifically, a bank must assess
          the expected average prepayment speed under each scenario.



       (2) Fixed rate loan commitments – Banks may sell options to retail customers
           (eg prospective mortgage buyers or renewers) whereby, for a limited period,
            the customers can choose to draw down a loan at a committed rate. Unlike
            loan commitments to corporates, where drawdowns strongly reflect
            characteristics of automatic interest rate options, mortgage commitments (ie
            pipelines) to retail customers are impacted by other drivers.

       (3) Term deposits subject to early redemption risk – Banks may attract deposits
           with a contractual maturity term or with step-up clauses that enable the
           depositor at different time periods to modify the speed of redemption. The
           classification scheme should be documented, whether a term deposit is
           deemed to be subject to redemption penalties or to other contractual
           features that preserve the cash flow profile of the instrument.

       (4) NMDs – Behavioural assumptions for deposits that have no specific repricing
           date can be a major determinant of IRRBB exposures under the economic
           value and earnings-based measures. Banks should document, monitor and
           regularly update key assumptions for NMD balances and behaviour used in
           their IMS. To determine the appropriate assumptions for its NMDs, a bank
           should analyse its depositor base in order to identify the proportion of core
           deposits (ie NMDs which are unlikely to reprice even under significant
           changes in interest rate environment). Assumptions should vary according to
           depositor characteristics (eg retail/wholesale) and account characteristics (eg
           transactional/non-transactional).

31.42 Modelling assumptions should be conceptually sound and reasonable, and
      consistent with historical experience. Banks must carefully consider how the
      exercise of the behavioural optionality will vary not only under the interest rate
      shock and stress scenario but also across other dimensions. For instance,
      considerations may include those set out in Table 1.

       Considerations affecting behavioural optionality                                      Table 1
Product 
Dimensions influencing the exercise of the embedded behavioural options
Fixed rate loans subject to prepayment risk
Loan size, loan-to-value ratio, borrower characteristics, contractual interest rates, seasoning, geographical location, original and remaining maturity, and other historical factors.
Other macroeconomic variables such as stock indices, unemployment rates, gross domestic product (GDP), inflation and housing price indices should be considered in modelling prepayment behaviour.
Fixed rate loan commitments

Borrower characteristics, geographical location (including competitive environment and local premium conventions), customer relationship with bank as evidenced by cross-products, remaining maturity of the commitment, seasoning and remaining term of the mortgage.
Term deposits subject to early redemption risk
Deposit size, depositor characteristics, funding channel (eg direct or brokered deposit), contractual interest rates, seasonal factors, geographical location and competitive environment, remaining maturity and other historical factors.
Other macroeconomic variables such as stock indices, unemployment rates, GDP, inflation and housing price indices should be considered in modelling deposit redemption behaviour.
NMDs
Responsiveness of product rates to changes in market interest rates, current level of interest rates, spread between a bank’s offer rate and market rate, competition from other firms, the bank’s geographical location and demographic and other relevant characteristics of its customer base.



31.43 In addition, banks with positions denominated in different currencies can expose
      themselves to IRRBB in each of those currencies. Since yield curves vary from
      currency to currency, banks generally need to assess exposures in each currency.
      Banks with the necessary skills and sophistication, and with material
      multicurrency exposures, may choose to include, in their IMS, methods to
      aggregate their IRRBB in different currencies using assumptions about the
      correlation between interest rates in different currencies.


31.44



        Further, banks should consider the materiality of the impact of behavioural
        optionalities within floating rate loans. For instance, the behaviour of
        prepayments arising from embedded caps and floors could impact the banks’
        economic value of equity.

31.45 Banks should be able to test the appropriateness of key behavioural assumptions,
      and all changes to the assumptions of key parameters should be documented (eg
      by comparing the economic value of equity measured under their IMS with the
      standardised framework in SRP31.94 to SRP31.129). Banks should periodically
      perform sensitivity analyses for key assumptions to monitor their impact on
      measured IRRBB. Sensitivity analyses should be performed with reference to both
      economic value and earnings-based measures.

31.46 The most significant assumptions underlying the system should be documented
      and clearly understood by the governing body or its delegates. Documentation
      should also include descriptions on how those assumptions could potentially
      affect the bank’s hedging strategies.

31.47 As market conditions, competitive environments and strategies change over time,
      the bank should review significant measurement assumptions at least annually
      and more frequently during rapidly changing market conditions. For example, if
      the competitive market has changed such that consumers now have lower
      transaction costs available to them for refinancing their residential mortgages,
      prepayments may become more sensitive to smaller reductions in interest rates.


Principle 6 – data integrity and model governance
31.48 Accurate and timely measurement of IRRBB is necessary for effective risk
      management and control. A bank’s risk measurement system should be able to
      identify and quantify the major sources of IRRBB exposure. The mix of a bank’s
      business lines and the risk characteristics of its activities should guide
      management’s selection of the most appropriate form of measurement system.

31.49 Banks should not rely on a single measure of risk, given that risk management
      systems tend to vary in how they capture the components of IRRBB. Instead,
      banks should use a variety of methodologies to quantify their IRRBB exposures
      under both the economic value and earnings-based measures, ranging from
      simple calculations based on static simulations using current holdings to more
      sophisticated dynamic modelling techniques that reflect potential future business
      activities.


31.50
        A bank’s MIS should allow it to retrieve accurate IRRBB information in a timely
        manner. The MIS should capture interest rate risk data on all the bank’s material
        IRRBB exposures. There should be sufficient documentation of the major data
        sources used in the bank’s risk measurement process.

31.51 Data inputs should be automated as much as possible to reduce administrative
      errors. Data mapping should be periodically reviewed and tested against an
      approved model version. A bank should monitor the type of data extracts and set
      appropriate controls.

31.52 Where cash flows are slotted into different time buckets (eg for gap analyses) or
      assigned to different vertex points to reflect the different tenors of the interest
      rate curve, the slotting criteria should be stable over time to allow for a
      meaningful comparison of risk figures over different periods.

31.53 Banks’ IMS should be able to compute economic value and earnings-based
      measures of IRRBB, as well as other measures of IRRBB prescribed by their
      supervisors, based on the interest rate shock and stress scenarios set out in SRP31.
      30. It should also be sufficiently flexible to incorporate supervisory-imposed
      constraints on banks’ internal risk parameter estimates.

31.54 The validation of IRRBB measurement methods and assessment of corresponding
      model risk should be included in a formal policy process that should be reviewed
      and approved by the governing body or its delegates. The policy should specify
      the management roles and designate who is responsible for the development,
      implementation and use of models. In addition, the model oversight
      responsibilities as well as policies including the development of initial and
      ongoing validation procedures, evaluation of results, approval, version control,
      exception, escalation, modification and decommission processes need to be
      specified and integrated within the governance processes for model risk
      management.

31.55 An effective validation framework should include three core elements:

        (1) evaluation of conceptual/methodological soundness, including
            developmental evidence;

        (2) ongoing model monitoring, including process verification and
            benchmarking; and

        (3) outcomes analysis, including backtesting of key internal parameters (eg
            stability of deposits, prepayments, early redemptions, pricing of instruments).



31.56 In addressing the expected initial and ongoing validation activities, the policy
      should establish a hierarchical process for determining model risk soundness

       based on both quantitative and qualitative dimensions such as size, impact, past
       performance and familiarity with the modelling technique employed.

31.57 Model risk management for IRRBB measures should follow a holistic approach
      that begins with motivation, development and implementation by model owners
      and users. Prior to receiving authorisation for usage, the process for determining
      model inputs, assumptions, modelling methodologies and outputs should be
      reviewed and validated independently of the development of IRRBB models. The
      review and validation results and any recommendations on model usage should
      be presented to and approved by the governing body or its delegates. Upon
      approval, the model should be subject to ongoing review, process verification
      and validation at a frequency that is consistent with the level of model risk
      determined and approved by the bank.

31.58 The ongoing validation process should establish a set of exception trigger events
      that obligate the model reviewers to notify the governing body or its delegates in
      a timely fashion, in order to determine corrective actions and/or restrictions on
      model usage. Clear version control authorisations should be designated, where
      appropriate, to model owners. With the passage of time and due to observations
      and new information gained over time, an approved model may be modified or
      decommissioned. Banks should articulate policies for model transition, including
      change and version control authorisations and documentation.

31.59 IRRBB models might include those developed by third-party vendors. Model
      inputs or assumptions may also be sourced from related modelling processes or
      sub-models (both in-house and vendor-sourced) and should be included in the
      validation process. The bank should document and explain model specification
      choices as part of the validation process.

31.60 Banks that purchase IRRBB models should ensure there is adequate
      documentation of their use of those models, including any specific customisation.
      If vendors provide input for market data, behavioural assumptions or model
      settings, the bank should have a process in place to determine if those inputs are
      reasonable for its business and the risk characteristics of its activities.

31.61 Internal audit should review the model risk management process as part of its
      annual risk assessment and audit plans. The audit activity should not duplicate
      model risk management processes, but should review the integrity and
      effectiveness of the risk management system and the model risk management
      process.




Principle 7 – reporting to management
31.62 The reporting of risk measures to the governing body or its delegates should be
      regular and should compare current exposure with policy limits. In particular,
      reporting should include the results of the periodic model reviews and audits as
      well as comparisons of past forecasts or risk estimates with actual results to
      inform potential modelling shortcomings on a regular basis. Portfolios that may
      be subject to significant mark-to-market movements should be clearly identified
      within the bank’s MIS and subject to oversight in line with any other portfolios
      exposed to market risk.

31.63 While the types of reports prepared for the governing body or its delegates will
      vary based on the bank’s portfolio composition, they should include at least the
      following:

       (1) summaries of the bank’s aggregate IRRBB exposures, and explanatory text
           that highlights the assets, liabilities, cash flows, and strategies that are
           driving the level and direction of IRRBB;

       (2) reports demonstrating the bank’s compliance with policies and limits;

       (3) key modelling assumptions such as NMD characteristics, prepayments on
           fixed rate loans and currency aggregation;

       (4) results of stress tests, including assessment of sensitivity to key assumptions
           and parameters; and

       (5) summaries of the reviews of IRRBB policies, procedures and adequacy of the
           measurement systems, including any findings of internal and external
           auditors and/or other equivalent external parties (such as consultants).

31.64 Reports detailing the bank’s IRRBB exposures should be provided to the bank’s
      governing body or its delegates on a timely basis and reviewed regularly. The
      IRRBB reports should provide aggregate information as well as sufficient
      supporting detail to enable the governing body or its delegates to assess the
      sensitivity of the bank to changes in market conditions, with particular reference
      to portfolios that may potentially be subject to significant mark-to-market
      movements. The governing body or its delegates should review the bank’s IRRBB
      management policies and procedures in light of the reports, to ensure that they
      remain appropriate and sound. The governing body or its delegates should also
      ensure that analysis and risk management activities related to IRRBB are
      conducted by competent staff with technical knowledge and experience,
      consistent with the nature and scope of the bank’s activities.

Principle 8 – public disclosure
31.65 The level of IRRBB exposure should be measured and disclosed. Disclosure
      requirements are set out in DIS70.


Principle 9 – IRRBB in the ICAAP
31.66 Banks are responsible for evaluating the level of capital that they should hold,
      and for ensuring that this is sufficient to cover IRRBB and its related risks. The
      contribution of IRRBB to the overall internal capital assessment should be based
      on the bank’s IMS outputs, taking account of key assumptions and risk limits. The
      overall level of capital should be commensurate with both the bank’s actual
      measured level of risk (including for IRRBB) and its risk appetite, and be duly
      documented in its ICAAP report.

31.67 Banks should not only rely on supervisory assessments of capital adequacy for
      IRRBB, but should also develop their own methodologies for capital allocation,
      based on their risk appetite. In determining the appropriate level of capital, banks
      should consider both the amount and the quality of capital needed.

31.68 Capital adequacy for IRBBB should be considered in relation to the risks to
      economic value, given that such risks are embedded in the bank’s assets,
      liabilities and off-balance sheet items. For risks to future earnings, given the
      possibility that future earnings may be lower than expected, banks should
      consider capital buffers.

31.69 Capital adequacy assessments for IRRBB should factor in:

       (1) the size and tenor of internal limits on IRRBB exposures, and whether these
           limits are reached at the point of capital calculation;

       (2) the effectiveness and expected cost of hedging open positions that are
           intended to take advantage of internal expectations of the future level of
           interest rates;

       (3) the sensitivity of the internal measures of IRRBB to key modelling
           assumptions;

       (4) the impact of shock and stress scenarios on positions priced off different
           interest rate indices (basis risk);

       (5) the impact on economic value and NII of mismatched positions in different
           currencies;


       (6) the impact of embedded losses;

       (7) the distribution of capital relative to risks across legal entities that form part
           of a capital consolidation group, in addition to the adequacy of overall
           capital on a consolidated basis;

       (8) the drivers of the underlying risk; and

       (9) the circumstances under which the risk might crystallise.

31.70 The outcomes of the capital adequacy for IRRBB should be considered in a bank’s
      ICAAP and flow through to assessments of capital associated with business lines.


Principle 10 – supervisory assessment of banks’ IRRBB exposures
31.71 Supervisors should, on a regular basis, collect sufficient information from banks
      to assess their IRRBB exposures. While the precise information obtained could
      differ among supervisors, the amount of information collected should at least
      allow the supervisor to assess the IRRBB exposures of the bank and to identify
      and monitor outlier banks under Principle 12.

31.72 Supervisors should ensure that the collection of information is comparable and
      consistent across the banks that they supervise. Supervisors should have
      discretionary powers to collect additional information to assess banks’ IRRBB in
      line with Principle 11, including the sensitivity of their IMS calculations to changes
      in key assumptions. For example, supervisors may collect information on:

       (1) the modelling of NMDs for IMS purposes and the sensitivity of a bank’s
           economic value and earnings to changes in NMD assumptions;

       (2) the impact of assumptions used regarding products with behavioural
           optionalities;

       (3) the treatment of own equity in internal calculations and the extent to which
           this impacts the change in economic value of equity (EVE) number disclosed
           under Principle 8;

       (4) repricing gaps of cash flows associated with their interest rate-sensitive
           assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items (by significiant currencies);

       (5) exposures to automatic interest rate options;

       (6) the types of yield curve used for IMS purposes;

       (7) the level of EVE if calculated using the standardised framework set out in
           SRP31.94 to SRP31.129; and


       (8) economic value and earnings-based measures for interest rate shock and
           stress scenarios in addition to those prescribed in paragraphs SRP31.90 to
           SRP31.93 (including results based on banks’ internally developed or other
           interest rate shock or stress scenarios).

31.73 Jurisdictions that intend to perform an off-site review of their banks’ IRRBB
      should put in place adequate reporting schemes to enable peer comparison of
      banks and identification of banks for additional on-site work.


Principle 11 – supervisory assessment of banks’ IRRBB management
31.74 Supervisors should regularly evaluate the adequacy, integrity and effectiveness of
      a bank’s IRRBB management framework and assess whether its practices comply
      with the stated objectives and risk tolerances set by its governing body, and with
      supervisory expectations as set out in Principles 1 to 7. Supervisors should take
      into account a bank’s size and complexity at the time of assessment.

31.75 Supervisors should evaluate whether a bank’s IMS provides a sufficient basis for
      identifying and measuring IRRBB, taking note particularly of the key assumptions
      that affect the measurement of IRRBB. Supervisors should request and evaluate
      information about significant model or policy changes that have occurred
      between their regular reviews and concentrate their efforts on reviewing the most
      material models and policies.

31.76 Supervisors should review regularly the outputs from the bank’s IMS, including
      the bank’s IRRBB exposures (both economic value and earnings-based measures)
      based on the internal calculations using at least the prescribed interest rate shock
      scenarios specified in SRP31.90 to SRP31.93, as well as any additional interest rate
      shock and stress scenarios they determine should be assessed. Supervisors may
      also form their evaluation of a bank’s IMS by applying supervisory estimates
      which they have developed. Supervisors should also review the information
      disclosed by banks under Principle 8.

31.77 When reviewing the bank’s IRRBB exposures and forming conclusions about the
      quality of the bank’s IRRBB management, supervisors should at a minimum,
      consider:

       (1) the complexity and level of risk posed by the bank’s assets, liabilities and off-
           balance sheet activities;

       (2) the adequacy and effectiveness of oversight by the bank’s governing body or
           its delegates;

       (3) a bank’s knowledge and ability to identify and manage the sources of IRRBB;



       (4) the adequacy of internal validation of IRRBB measures, including sensitivity
           analysis and backtesting, in particular where changes in key modelling
           parameters have occurred;

       (5) the adequacy of internal monitoring and of the bank’s MIS;

       (6) the effectiveness of risk limits and controls that set tolerances on economic
           value and earnings;

       (7) the effectiveness of the bank’s IRRBB stress testing programme;

       (8) the adequacy and frequency of the internal review and audit of the IRRBB
           management process, including independent model validation and oversight
           of model risk;

       (9) the adequacy and effectiveness of IRRBB management practices as
           evidenced by past and projected financial performance;

       (10) the effectiveness of hedging strategies used by the bank to control IRRBB;
            and

       (11) the appropriateness of the level of IRRBB (including embedded losses) in
            relation to the bank’s capital, earnings and risk management systems.

31.78 Supervisors should assess the adequacy of a bank’s capital relative to its IRRBB
      exposures (against expectations set out in Principle 9) to determine whether the
      bank requires more detailed examination and should potentially be subject to
      additional capital requirements and/or other mitigation actions. This assessment
      need not be limited to the outlier/materiality test set out in Principle 12.

31.79 The supervisory evaluation should be undertaken both on a standalone basis and
      by making comparisons with peer banks – in particular, supervisors should
      compare the key behavioural and strategic assumptions being made by banks
      within their jurisdictions, to determine whether they can be justified with regard
      to the economic environment and business model. Supervisors should ensure
      that the information they review is comparable and consistent across the banks
      that they supervise.

31.80 Supervisors should employ specialist resources to assist with the assessment of
      IRRBB levels and controls in the banks that they supervise. Supervisory bodies
      should:

       (1) ensure that line supervisors are appropriately trained and sufficiently
           knowledgeable to identify all relevant aspects of IRRBB in the banks that
           they regulate; and


       (2) employ an adequate number of IRRBB specialists.

31.81 Supervisors should cooperate and share information with relevant supervisors in
      other jurisdictions regarding the supervision of banks’ IRRBB, in particular for
      banks with operations across multiple jurisdictions. Sharing of such information
      could take place on a bilateral or multilateral basis (eg through supervisory
      colleges). The information shared could include supervisory experiences from
      assessing and monitoring a bank’s IRRBB in different parts of its group, modelling
      assumptions made by banks, any impediments experienced during the
      supervision process, rules/criteria established to evaluate the capital that banks
      would need for IRRBB, and examples of good practices observed in the banks’
      management of IRRBB.


Principle 12 – supervisory action with respect to outlier banks
31.82 Supervisors must publish their criteria for identifying an outlier bank, defined in
      terms of the outlier/materiality test(s) used by the supervisor. The supervisor
      should implement at least one outlier/materiality test that compares the bank’s
      maximum ∆EVE, under the six prescribed interest rate shock scenarios set out in
      paragraphs SRP31.90 to SRP31.93, with 15% of its Tier 1 capital, computed in line
      with the disclosure requirements in Principle 8.

31.83 Supervisors may also implement additional outlier/materiality tests, provided
      these tests are applied throughout their jurisdiction in the same form. The
      additional outlier/materiality tests could use a different capital measure (eg
      Common Equity Tier 1, or CET1, capital, amount by which regulatory capital
      exceeds the bank’s minimum requirements) or capture the bank’s IRRBB relative
      to earnings. For the additional outlier/materiality tests, the threshold for defining
      an outlier bank should be at least as stringent as 15% of Tier 1 capital.

31.84 Banks identified by supervisors under their criteria as outliers must be considered
      as potentially having undue IRRBB and subject to review.

31.85 All banks are expected to hold adequate capital for the risks they undertake. With
      regard to IRRBB, supervisors should evaluate whether the bank has adequate
      capital and earnings that are commensurate with its level of short-term and long-
      term IRRBB exposures, as well as the risk those exposures may pose to its future
      financial performance. Supervisors should consider the following factors:



       (1) The ∆EVE under a variety of shocked and stressed interest rate scenarios.
           Where a bank’s EVE is significantly sensitive to interest rate shocks and
           stresses, the supervisor should evaluate the impact on its capital levels
           arising from financial instruments held at market value, and potential impact
           should banking book positions held at historical cost become subject to

            market valuation. Supervisors should, in their assessment, consider the
            impact of key assumptions on the ∆EVE calculated, including those related to
            the inclusion/exclusion of commercial margins, the bank’s actual equity
            allocation profile, the stability of NMDs and prepayment optionality.

       (2) The strength and stability of the earnings stream and the level of income
           needed to generate and maintain normal business operations. A high level
           of IRRBB exposure is one that could, under a plausible range of market
           scenarios, result in the bank reporting losses or curtailing normal dividend
           distribution and business operations. In such cases, management should
           ensure that the bank has sufficient capital to withstand the adverse impact of
           such events until it can implement mitigating actions such as reducing
           exposures or increasing capital.

31.86 When a supervisor determines that a bank’s IMS is deficient in its measurement
      of IRRBB, the supervisor should require the bank to improve its IMS and/or use
      the standardised framework set out in SRP31.94 to SRP31.129 to compute its
      IRRBB in terms of ∆EVE.

31.87 A bank could also be considered to have excessive risk relative to earnings if its
      shocked ΔNII was such that the bank would not have sufficient income to
      maintain its normal business operations.

31.88 When a national supervisor concludes that a bank’s management of IRRBB is
      inadequate or that it has excessive risk relative to its capital or earnings, or its
      general risk profile, the supervisor must require the bank to take one or more of
      the following actions:

       (1) reduce its IRRBB exposures (eg by hedging);

       (2) raise additional capital;

       (3) set constraints on the internal risk parameters used by a bank; and/or

       (4) improve its risk management framework.

31.89 The reduction in IRRBB and/or the expected higher level of capital should be
      achieved within a specified time frame, to be established taking into
      consideration prevailing financial and economic conditions, as well as the causes
      of IRRBB exposure exceeding the supervisory threshold.

The standardised interest rate shock scenarios
31.90 Banks should apply six prescribed interest rate shock scenarios to capture parallel
      and non-parallel gap risks for EVE and two prescribed interest rate shock
      scenarios for NII. The derivation of these shocks is explained in SRP98.56 to
      SRP98.63. These scenarios are applied to IRRBB exposures in each currency for
      which the bank has material positions. In order to accommodate heterogeneous
      economic environments across jurisdictions, the six shock scenarios reflect
      currency-specific absolute shocks as specified in Table 2 below. For the purposes
      of capturing the local rate environment, a historical time series ranging from 2000
      to 2015 for various maturities was used to derive each scenario for a given
      currency. Under this approach, IRRBB is measured by means of the following six
      scenarios:

       (1) parallel shock up;

       (2) parallel shock down;

       (3) steepener shock (short rates down and long rates up);

       (4) flattener shock (short rates up and long rates down);

       (5) short rates shock up; and

       (6) short rates shock down.


            Specified size of interest rate shocks,
                                                                                                   Table 2


                       ARS    AUD     BRL     CAD      CHF   CNY       EUR    GBP     HKD    IDR      INR

            Parallel   400    300     400     200      100     250     200     250    200    400      400

            Short      500    450     500     300      150     300     250     300    250    500      500

            Long       300    200     300     150      100     150     100     150    100    300      300



                        JPY    KRW     MXN      RUB      SAR         SEK     SGD     TRY    USD      ZAR

            Parallel   100      300     400      400     200         200     150     400    200      400

            Short      100      400     500      500     300         300     200     500    300      500

            Long       100      200     300      300     150         150     100     300    150      300



 Jurisdictions may under national discretion, deviate from the initial 16-
                   year period if it better reflects their idiosyncratic circumstances.


31.91 Given Table 2, the instantaneous shocks to the risk-free rate for parallel, short
      and long, for each currency, the following parameterisations of the six interest
      rate shock scenarios should be applied:

       (1) Parallel shock for currency c: a constant parallel shock up or down across all
           time buckets.




       (2) Short rate shock for currency c: shock up or down that is greatest at the
           shortest tenor midpoint. That shock, through the shaping scalar, diminishes towards zero at the tenor of the

            longest point in the term structure.




       (3) Long rate shock for currency c (note: this is used only in the rotational
           shocks): Here the shock is greatest at the longest tenor midpoint and is

            related to the short scaling factor as:                       .




       (4) Rotation shocks for currency c: involving rotations to the term structure (ie
           steepeners and flatteners) of the interest rates whereby both the long and
           short rates are shocked and the shift in interest rates at each tenor midpoint
           is obtained by applying the following formulas to those shocks:


The value of x in the denominator of the function         controls the
                   rate of decay of the shock. This should be set to the value of 4 for most
                   currencies and the related shocks unless otherwise determined by
                   national supervisors. tk is the midpoint (in time) of the kth bucket and tK
                   is the midpoint (in time) of the last bucket K. There are 19 buckets in
                   the standardised framework, but the analysis may be generalised to
                   any number of buckets.


31.92 The following examples illustrate the scenarios in SRP31.91(2) and SRP31.91(4).

       (1) Short rate shock: Assume that the bank uses the standardised framework
           with K=19 time bands and with tK=25 years (the midpoint (in time) of the
            longest tenor bucket K), and where is the midpoint (in time) for bucket k.
            In the standardised framework, if k=10 with tk=3.5 years, the scalar
            adjustment for the short shock would be

                           = 0.417. Banks would multiply this by the value of the short

            rate shock to obtain the amount to be added to or subtracted from the yield
            curve at that tenor point. If the short rate shock was +100 basis points (bp),
            the increase in the yield curve at tk=3.5 years would be 41.7 bp.

       (2) Steepener: Assume the same point on the yield curve as above, tk=3.5 years.
            If the absolute value of the short rate shock was 100 bp and the absolute
            value of the long rate shock was 100 bp (as for the Japanese yen), the
            change in the yield curve at tk=3.5 years would be the sum of the effect of
            the short rate shock plus the effect of the long rate shock in bp: 

       (3) Flattener: The corresponding change in the yield curve for the shocks in the
           example above at tk=3.5 years would be −1.6bp.

31.93 The Committee acknowledges that shock sizes of different currencies should
      reflect local conditions in a timely manner. For this reason, the Committee will
      review the calibration of the interest rate shock sizes (eg every five years).
      National supervisors may, at their discretion, set floors for the post-shock interest
      rates under the six interest rate shock scenarios, provided the floors are not
      greater than zero.



The standardised framework
31.94 Supervisors could mandate their banks to follow the framework set out in this
      section, or a bank could choose to adopt it.

31.95 The steps involved in measuring a bank’s IRRBB, based solely on EVE, are:

      (1) Interest rate-sensitive banking book positions are allocated to one of three
          categories (ie amenable, less amenable and not amenable to standardisation).

      (2) Determination of slotting of cash flows based on repricing maturities. This is
          a straightforward translation for positions amenable to standardisation. For
          positions less amenable to standardisation, they are excluded from this step.
          For positions with embedded automatic interest rate options, the optionality
          should be ignored for the purpose of slotting of notional repricing cash flows.
          
            For positions that are not amenable to standardisation, there is a separate
          treatment for:

           (a) NMDs – according to separation of core and non-core cash flows via
               the approach set out in SRP31.107 to SRP31.112.

           (b) Behavioural options (fixed rate loans subject to prepayment risk and
               term deposits subject to early redemption risk) – behavioural
               parameters relevant to the position type must rely on a scenario-
               dependent look-up table set out in SRP31.119 and SRP31.125.

      (3) Determination of ∆EVE for relevant interest rate shock scenarios for each
          currency. The ∆EVE is measured per currency for all six prescribed interest
          rate shock scenarios.

      (4) Add-ons for changes in the value of automatic interest rate options (whether
          explicit or embedded) are added to the EVE changes. Automatic interest rate
          options sold are subject to full revaluation (possibly net of automatic interest
          rate options bought to hedge sold interest rate options) under each of the
          six prescribed interest rate shock scenarios for each currency. Changes in
          values of options are then added to the changes in the EVE measure under
          each interest rate shock scenario on a per currency basis.

      (5) IRRBB EVE calculation. The ∆EVE under the standardised framework will be
          the maximum of the worst aggregated reductions to EVE across the six
          supervisory prescribed interest rate shocks.



  That is, the embedded automatic interest rate option is stripped out
                     from the process of slotting notional repricing cash flows in Step 2 and
                     treated together with other automatic interest rate options under Step
                     4.


31.96 Banks must project all future notional repricing cash flows arising from interest
      rate-sensitive assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items on to:

       (1) 19 predefined time buckets (indexed numerically by k) as set out in Table 3,
           into which they fall according to their repricing dates, or

       (2) the time bucket midpoints as set out in Table 3, retaining the notional
           repricing cash flows’ maturity. This alternative requires splitting up notional
           repricing cash flows between two adjacent maturity bucket midpoints.

            Maturity schedule with 19 time buckets for notional repricing cash flows
            repriciting at tCF

            The number in brackets is the time bucket’s midpoint                                Table 3


31.97 For the purpose of this approach, assets are those not deducted from CET1
      capital and exclude fixed assets (such as real estate or intangible assets) and

       equity exposures in the banking book. Liabilities include all non-remunerated
       deposits but exclude CET1 capital under the Basel III framework.

31.98 A notional repricing cash flow CF(k) is defined as:

       (1) any repayment of principal (eg at contractual maturity);

       (2) any repricing of principal; repricing is said to occur at the earliest date at
           which either the bank or its counterparty is entitled to unilaterally change the
           interest rate, or at which the rate on a floating rate instrument changes
           automatically in response to a change in an external benchmark; or

       (3) any interest payment on a tranche of principal that has not yet been repaid
           or repriced; spread components of interest payments on a tranche of
           principal that has not yet been repaid and which do not reprice must be
           slotted until their contractual maturity irrespective of whether the non-
           amortised principal has been repriced or not.

31.99 The date of each repayment, repricing or interest payment is referred to as its
      repricing date.

31.100 Banks have the choice of whether to deduct commercial margins and other
      spread components from the notional repricing cash flows, using a prudent and
      transparent methodology.

31.101 Floating rate instruments are assumed to reprice fully at the first reset date.
      Hence, the entire principal amount is slotted into the bucket in which that date
      falls, with no additional slotting of notional repricing cash flows to later time
      buckets or time bucket midpoints (other than the spread component which is not
      repriced).

31.102 All notional repricing cash flows associated with interest rate-sensitive assets,
      liabilities and off-balance sheet items, for each currency, are allocated to the
      prescribed time buckets or time bucket midpoints (henceforth, denoted by under interest rate shock scenario i and currency c) based on their
       amenability to standardisation.

31.103 Notional repricing cash flows can be slotted into appropriate time buckets or
      time bucket midpoints based on their contractual maturity, if subject to fixed
      coupons, or into the next repricing period if coupons are floating. Positions
      amenable to standardisation fall into two categories:


       (1) Fixed rate positions: such positions generate cash flows that are certain till
           the point of contractual maturity. Examples are fixed rate loans without
           embedded prepayment options, term deposits without redemption risk and
           other amortising products such as mortgage loans. All coupon cash flows
           and periodic or final principal repayments should be allocated to the time
           bucket midpoints closest to the contractual maturity.

       (2) Floating rate positions: such positions generate cash flows that are not
           predictable past the next repricing date other than that the present value
           would be reset to par. Accordingly, such instruments can be treated as a
           series of coupon payments until the next repricing and a par notional cash
           flow at the time bucket midpoint closest to the next reset date bucket.

31.104 Positions amenable to standardisation include positions with embedded
      automatic interest rate options where the optionality (whether sold or bought)
      should be ignored for the purpose of slotting of notional repricing cash flows.
      That is, the stripped-out embedded automatic interest rate option must be
      treated together with explicit automatic interest rate options. Supervisors may
      allow banks to categorise other positions as amenable to standardisation and
      ignore the optionality if it can be shown to be of immaterial consequence.

 For example, a floating rate loan or debt security with a floor would be
                   treated as if there were no floor; hence it would be treated as if it fully
                   repriced at the next reset date, and its full outstanding balance slotted
                   in the corresponding time band. Similarly, a callable bond issued by a
                   bank at a fixed yield would be treated as if it matured at its longest
                   contractual term, ignoring the call option.


31.105 Some positions are less amenable to standardisation. For explicit automatic
      interest rate options, as well as embedded automatic interest rate options that
      are separated or stripped out from the bank’s assets or liabilities (ie the host
      contract), the methodology for automatic interest rate options is described in
      SRP31.127 and SRP31.128.


 A common feature of these positions is optionality that makes the
                   timing of notional repricing cash flows uncertain. This optionality
                   introduces a non-linearity, which suggests that delta-equivalent
                   approximations are imprecise for large interest rate shock scenarios.

An example of a product with embedded automatic interest rate
                   options is a floating rate mortgage loan with embedded caps and/or
                   floors. Notional repricing cash flows for those loans are treated as a
                   fixed rate loan until the next repricing date, thereby ignoring the
                   option, which instead is treated like a separate automatic interest rate
                   option.


31.106 Positions not amenable to standardisation include

       (1) NMDs,

       (2) fixed rate loans subject to prepayment risk and

       (3) term deposits subject to early redemption risk.

31.107 Under the standardised framework, banks should first separate their NMDs
      according to the nature of the deposit and depositor. Banks should then identify,
      for each category, the core and non-core deposits, up to the limits specified in
      Table 4. Finally, banks should determine an appropriate cash flow slotting for
      each category, in accordance with the average maturity limits specified in Table 4.

31.108 NMDs must be segmented into retail and wholesale categories. Retail deposits
      are defined as deposits placed with a bank by an individual person. Deposits
      made by small business customers and managed as retail exposures are
      considered as having similar interest rate risk characteristics to retail accounts
      and thus can be treated as retail deposits (provided the total aggregated
      liabilities raised from one small business customer are less than €1 million). Retail
      deposits should be considered as held in a transactional account when regular
      transactions are carried out in that account (eg when salaries are regularly
      credited) or when the deposit is non-interest bearing. Other retail deposits
      should be considered as held in a non-transactional account. Deposits from legal
      entities, sole proprietorships or partnerships are captured in wholesale deposit
      categories.

  A specific category may be introduced for non-remunerated deposits,
                   subject to supervisory approval.




31.109 Banks should distinguish between the stable and the non-stable parts of each
      NMD category using observed volume changes over the past 10 years. The stable
      NMD portion is the portion that is found to remain undrawn with a high degree
      of likelihood. Core deposits are the proportion of stable NMDs which are unlikely
      to reprice even under significant changes in the interest rate environment. The
      remainder constitutes non-core NMDs.

31.110 Banks are required to estimate their level of core deposits using this two-step
      procedure for each deposit category, and then to aggregate the results to
      determine the overall volume of core deposits subject to imposed caps as shown
      in Table 4.

31.111 NMDs should finally be slotted into the appropriate time bucket or time bucket
      midpoint. Non-core deposits should be considered as overnight deposits and
      accordingly should be placed into the shortest/overnight time bucket or time
      bucket midpoint.

31.112 Banks should determine an appropriate cash flow slotting procedure for each
      category of core deposits, up to the maximum average maturity per category as
      specified in Table 4.

       Caps on core deposits and average maturity by category                        Table 4


                                  Cap on proportion of core  deposits (%) 
    Cap on average maturity of  core deposits (years)

       Retail / transactional                 90                            5

       Retail / non-                          70                           4.5
       transactional

       Wholesale                              50                            4



31.113 The treatment set out SRP31.114 to SRP31.126 applies only to behavioural
      options related to retail customers. Where a wholesale customer has a
      behavioural option that may change the pattern of notional repricing cash flows,
      such options must be included within the category of automatic interest rate
      options.

An example of such an option would be a puttable fixed coupon bond
                   issued by the bank in the wholesale market, for which the owner has
                   the right to sell the bond back to the bank at a fixed price at any time.


31.114 The standardised framework is applied to fixed rate loans subject to prepayments
      and term deposits subject to early redemption risk. In each case, the customer
      has an option, which, if exercised, will alter the timing of a bank’s cash flows. The
      customer’s exercise of the option is, among other factors, influenced by changes
      in interest rates. In the case of the fixed rate loan, the customer has an option to
      repay the loan early (ie prepay); and for a fixed-term deposit, the customer may
      have an option to withdraw their deposit before the scheduled date.

31.115 Under the standardised framework, the optionality in these products is estimated
      using a two-step approach. Firstly, baseline estimates of loan prepayments and
      early withdrawal of fixed-term deposits are calculated given the prevailing term
      structure of interest rates.
These baseline parameter estimates may be determined by the bank
                   subject to supervisory review and approval, or prescribed by the
                   supervisor.


31.116 In the second stage, the baseline estimates are multiplied by scenario-dependent
      scalars that reflect the likely behavioural changes in the exercise of the options.

31.117 Prepayments, or parts thereof, for which the economic cost is not charged to the
      borrower, are referred to as uncompensated prepayments. For loan products
      where the economic cost of prepayments is never charged, or charged only for
      prepayments above a certain threshold, the standardised framework for fixed rate
      loans subject to prepayments set out below must be used to assign notional
      repricing cash flows.

31.118 Banks must determine or supervisors prescribe the baseline conditional
      prepayment rate     for each portfolio p of homogeneous prepayment-exposed
      loan products denominated in currency c, under the prevailing term structure of
      interest rates.


31.119 The conditional prepayment rate (CPR) for each portfolio of homogeneous
      prepayment-exposed loan products denominated in currency c, under interest
       rate scenario i, is given using the formula that follows, where  is the
       (constant) base CPR of a portfolio pof homogeneous prepayment-exposed loans
       given in currency c and given the prevailing term structure of interest rates. γi is
       a multiplier applied for scenario i as given in Table 5.




        CPRs under the shock scenarios                                                    Table 5


            Scenario number (i)     Interest rate shock scenarios    γi (scenario multiplier)


                    1                        Parallel up                       0.8

                    2                      Parallel down                       1.2

                    3                        Steepener                         0.8

                    4                         Flattener                        1.2

                    5                      Short rate up                       0.8

                    6                     Short rate down                      1.2


  Alternatively, the base CPR may also vary over the life of each loan in
                     the portfolio. In that case, it is denoted as         for each time
                     bucket k or time bucket midpoint tk.



31.120 Prepayment speeds vary according to the interest rate shock scenario. The
      multipliers (γi) reflect the expectation that prepayments will generally be higher
       during periods of falling interest rates and lower during periods of rising interest
       rates.

31.121 The prepayments on the fixed rate loans must ultimately be reflected in the
      relevant cash flows (scheduled payments on the loans, prepayments and interest
      payments). These payments can be broken up into scheduled payments adjusted
      for prepayment and uncompensated prepayments according to the following


       formula, where          refers to the scheduled interest and principal repayment,

       and           denotes the notional outstanding at time bucket k–1. The base
       cash flows (ie given the current interest rate yield curve and the base CPR) are
       given by i=0, while the interest rate shock scenarios are given for i=1 to 6.


 For simplicity, we have assumed there is no annual limit on
                   prepayments. If a bank has an annual limit on uncompensated
                   prepayments, this limit will apply.


31.122 Term deposits lock in a fixed rate for a fixed term and would usually be hedged
      on that basis. However, term deposits may be subject to the risk of early
      withdrawal, also called early redemption risk. Consequently, term deposits may
      only be treated as fixed rate liabilities and their notional repricing cash flows
      slotted into the time buckets or time bucket midpoints up to their corresponding
      contractual maturity dates if it can be shown to the satisfaction of the supervisor
      that:

       (1) the depositor has no legal right to withdraw the deposit; or

       (2) an early withdrawal results in a significant penalty that at least compensates
           for the loss of interest between the date of withdrawal and the contractual
           maturity date and the economic cost of breaking the contract.


  However, often penalties do not reflect such an economic calculation
                   but instead are based on a simpler formula such as a percentage of
                   accrued interest. In such cases, there is potential for changes to profit
                   or loss arising from differences between the penalty charged and the
                   actual economic cost of early withdrawal.



31.123 
      If neither of these conditions is met, the depositor holds an option to withdraw
      and the term deposits are deemed to be subject to early redemption risk. Further,
      if a bank issues term deposits that do not meet the above criteria to wholesale
      customers, it must assume that the customer will always exercise the right to
      withdraw in the way that is most disadvantageous to the bank (ie the deposit is
      classified as an automatic interest rate option).

31.124 Banks must determine or supervisors prescribe the baseline term deposit
      redemption ratio             applicable to each homogeneous portfolio p of term
      deposits in currency c and use it to slot the notional repricing cash flows. Term
      deposits which are expected to be redeemed early are slotted into the overnight
      time bucket (k=1) or time bucket midpoint (t1).

31.125 The term deposit redemption ratio for time bucket k or time bucket midpoint tk
      applicable to each homogeneous portfolio p of term deposits in currency c and
      under scenario i is obtained by multiplying                  by a scalar ui (set out in Table
      6) that depends on the scenario i, as follows:




         Term deposit redemption rate (TDRR) under the shock scenarios                        Table 6


          Scenario number (i)      Interest rate shock scenarios           Scalar multipliers ui


                   1                        Parallel up                            1.2

                   2                      Parallel down                            0.8

                   3                        Steepener                              0.8

                   4                        Flattener                              1.2

                   5                      Short rate up                            1.2

                   6                     Short rate down                           0.8



31.126 The notional repricing cash flows which are expected to be withdrawn early under
      any interest rate shock scenario i are described as follows, where                 is the
      outstanding amount of term deposits of type p.


 31.127 This paragraph and SRP31.128 describe the method for calculating an add-on for
      automatic interest rate options, whether explicit or embedded. This applies to
      sold automatic interest rate options. Banks have a choice to either include all
      bought automatic options or include only automatic options used for hedging
      sold automatic interest rate options:

      (1) For each sold automatic option o in currency c, the value change, denoted
                      , is calculated for each interest rate shock scenario i. The value
           change is given by:

           (a) an estimate of the value of the option to the option holder, given:

                (i)   a yield curve in currency c under the interest rate shock scenario ;
                      and

                (ii) a relative increase in the implicit volatility of 25%; minus

           (b) the value of the sold option to the option holder, given the yield curve
               in currency c at the valuation date.

      (2) Likewise, for each bought automatic interest rate option q, the bank must
          determine the change in value of the option between interest rate shock
          scenario i and the current interest rate term structure combined with a
           relative increase in the implicit volatility of 25%. This is denoted as           .

      (3) The bank’s total measure for automatic interest rate option risk under
          interest rate shock scenario i in currency c is calculated as follows, where nc
           (mc)is the number of sold (bought) options in currency c.

 The most important automatic interest rate options likely to occur in
                   the banking book are caps and floors, which are often embedded in
                   banking products. Swaptions, such as prepayment options on non-
                   retail products, may also be treated as automatic interest rate options,
                   as, in cases where such options are held by sophisticated financial
                   market counterparties, the option holder will almost certainly exercise
                   the option if it is in their financial interest to do so. Any behavioural
                   option positions with wholesale customers that may change the
                   pattern of notional repricing cash flows are considered as embedded
                   automatic interest rate options for the purposes of this subsection.

 This estimate requires a methodology approved by the supervisor.


31.128 If the bank chooses to only include bought automatic interest rate options that
      are used for hedging sold automatic interest rate options, the bank must, for the
      remaining bought options, add any changes in market values reflected in the
      regulatory capital measure of the respective capital ratio (ie CET1, Additional Tier
      1 or total capital) to the total automatic interest rate option risk measure 

31.129 First, the loss in economic value of equity ,c under scenario i and currency c
       is calculated for each currency with material exposures, ie those accounting for
       more than 5% of either banking book assets or liabilities, as follows:

       (1) Under each scenario i, all notional repricing cash flows are slotted into the
           respective time bucket or time bucket midpoint . Within a given time bucket k or time bucket midpoint , all positive
            and negative notional repricing cash flows are netted to form a single long
            or short position, with the cancelled parts removed from the calculation.
            Following this process across all time buckets or time bucket midpoints leads
            to a set of notional repricing cash flows 




     (2) Net notional repricing cash flows in each time bucket k or time bucket
         midpoint  are weighted by a continuously compounded discount factor,
         described below, that reflects the interest rate shock scenario i in currency c
         as set out in SRP31.90 to SRP31.93, and where  is the midpoint of time
         bucket k. This results in a weighted net position, which may be positive or
         negative for each time bucket. The cash flows should be discounted using
         either a risk-free rate or a risk-free rate including commercial margin and
         other spread components (only if the bank has included commercial margins
         and other spread components in its cash flows).



     (3) These risk-weighted net positions are summed to determine the EVE in
         currency c under scenario i (excluding automatic interest rate option
         positions):


                                         (maturity buckets) or


                                          (maturity bucket midpoints)

     (4) Then, the full change in EVE in currency c associated with scenario i is
         obtained by subtracting          from the EVE under the current interest rate

         term structure         and by adding the total measure for automatic interest
         rate option risk as follows:


                                                                         (maturity
         buckets) or


                                                                          (maturity
         bucket midpoints)

     (5) Finally, the EVE losses  are aggregated under a given interest rate
         shock scenario i and the maximum loss across all interest rate shock
         scenarios is the EVE risk measure.


 Intra-bucket mismatch risk arises as notional repricing cash flows with
                 different maturity dates, but falling within the same time bucket or
                 time bucket midpoint, are assumed to match perfectly. This is
                 mitigated by introducing a high number of time buckets (ie K=19).

 Note that, depending on the approach taken for NMDs, prepayments
                 and products with other embedded behavioural options, the notional
                 repricing cash flows may vary by scenario (scenario-dependent cash
                 flow products).

The discounting factors must be representative of a risk-free zero
                 coupon rate. An example of an acceptable yield curve is a secured
                 interest rate swap curve.

 National supervisors would, however, be allowed to prescribe a
                 different method of currency aggregation for their banks, if the
                 national supervisor is able to support, with evidence, that such a
                 method would remain in line with the jurisdiction’s appetite for IRRBB.



                                 SRP32
                                 Credit risk
                                 This chapter describes aspects of credit risk not
                                 fully captured under Pillar 1 that should be
                                 considered under Pillar 2, including counterparty
                                 credit risk and securitisation.

Stress tests under the internal ratings-based approaches
32.1   A bank should ensure that it has sufficient capital to meet the Pillar 1
       requirements and the results (where a deficiency has been indicated) of the credit
       risk stress test performed as part of the Pillar 1 internal ratings-based (IRB)
       minimum requirements CRE36.50 to CRE36.54. Supervisors may wish to review
       how the stress test has been carried out. The results of the stress test will thus
       contribute directly to the expectation that a bank will operate above the Pillar 1
       minimum regulatory capital ratios. Supervisors will consider whether a bank has
       sufficient capital for these purposes. To the extent that there is a shortfall, the
       supervisor will react appropriately. This will usually involve requiring the bank to
       reduce its risks and/or to hold additional capital/provisions, so that existing
       capital resources could cover the Pillar 1 requirements plus the result of a
       recalculated stress test.


Definition of default
32.2   A bank must use the reference definition of default for its internal estimations of
       probability of default (PD) and/or loss given default (LGD) and exposure at
       default (EAD). However, as detailed in CRE36.71, national supervisors will issue
       guidance on how the reference definition of default is to be interpreted in their
       jurisdictions. Supervisors will assess individual banks’ application of the reference
       definition of default and its impact on capital requirements. In particular,
       supervisors will focus on the impact of deviations from the reference definition
       according to CRE36.73 (use of external data or historic internal data not fully
       consistent with the reference definition of default).


Residual risk
32.3   The Framework allows banks to offset credit or counterparty risk with collateral,
       guarantees or credit derivatives, leading to reduced capital charges. While banks
       use credit risk mitigation (CRM) techniques to reduce their credit risk, these
       techniques give rise to risks that may render the overall risk reduction less
       effective. Accordingly these risks (eg legal risk, documentation risk, or liquidity
       risk) to which banks are exposed are of supervisory concern. Where such risks
       arise, and irrespective of fulfilling the minimum requirements set out in Pillar 1, a
       bank could find itself with greater credit risk exposure to the underlying
       counterparty than it had expected. Examples of these risks include:

       (1) inability to seize, or realise in a timely manner, collateral pledged (on default
           of the counterparty);


       (2) refusal or delay by a guarantor to pay; and

       (3) ineffectiveness if untested documentation.

32.4   Therefore, supervisors will require banks to have in place appropriate written
       CRM policies and procedures in order to control these residual risks. A bank may
       be required to submit these policies and procedures to supervisors and must
       regularly review their appropriateness, effectiveness and operation.

32.5   In its CRM policies and procedures, a bank must consider whether, when
       calculating capital requirements, it is appropriate to give the full recognition of
       the value of the credit risk mitigant as permitted in Pillar 1 and must demonstrate
       that its CRM management policies and procedures are appropriate to the level of
       capital benefit that it is recognising. Where supervisors are not satisfied as to the
       robustness, suitability or application of these policies and procedures they may
       direct the bank to take immediate remedial action or hold additional capital
       against residual risk until such time as the deficiencies in the CRM procedures are
       rectified to the satisfaction of the supervisor. For example, supervisors may direct
       a bank to:

       (1) make adjustments to the assumptions on holding periods, supervisory
           haircuts, or volatility (in the own haircuts approach);

       (2) give less than full recognition of credit risk mitigants (on the whole credit
           portfolio or by specific product line); and/or

       (3) hold a specific additional amount of capital.


Credit concentration risk
32.6   A risk concentration is any single exposure or group of exposures with the
       potential to produce losses large enough (relative to a bank’s capital, total assets,
       or overall risk level) to threaten a bank’s health or ability to maintain its core
       operations. Risk concentrations are arguably the single most important cause of
       major problems in banks.

32.7   Risk concentrations can arise in a bank’s assets, liabilities, or off-balance sheet
       items, through the execution or processing of transactions (either product or
       service), or through a combination of exposures across these broad categories.
       Because lending is the primary activity of most banks, credit risk concentrations
       are often the most material risk concentrations within a bank.


32.8   Credit risk concentrations, by their nature, are based on common or correlated
       risk factors, which, in times of stress, have an adverse effect on the
       creditworthiness of each of the individual counterparties making up the
       concentration. Concentration risk arises in both direct exposures to obligors and
       may also occur through exposures to protection providers. Such concentrations
       are not addressed in the Pillar 1 capital charge for credit risk.

32.9   Banks should have in place effective internal policies, systems and controls to
       identify, measure, monitor, and control their credit risk concentrations. Banks
       should explicitly consider the extent of their credit risk concentrations in their
       assessment of capital adequacy under Pillar 2. These policies should cover the
       different forms of credit risk concentrations to which a bank may be exposed.
       Such concentrations include:

       (1) significant exposures to an individual counterparty or group of related
           counterparties. In many jurisdictions, supervisors define a limit for exposures
           of this nature, commonly referred to as a large exposure limit. Banks might
           also establish an aggregate limit for the management and control of all of its
           large exposures as a group;

       (2) credit exposures to counterparties in the same economic sector or
           geographic region;

       (3) credit exposures to counterparties whose financial performance is
           dependent on the same activity or commodity; and

       (4) indirect credit exposures arising from a bank’s CRM activities (eg exposure to
           a single collateral type or to credit protection provided by a single
           counterparty).

32.10 A bank’s framework for managing credit risk concentrations should be clearly
      documented and should include a definition of the credit risk concentrations
      relevant to the bank and how these concentrations and their corresponding limits
      are calculated. Limits should be defined in relation to a bank’s capital, total assets
      or, where adequate measures exist, its overall risk level.

32.11 A bank’s management should conduct periodic stress tests of its major credit risk
      concentrations and review the results of those tests to identify and respond to
      potential changes in market conditions that could adversely impact the bank’s
      performance.

32.12 A bank should ensure that, in respect of credit risk concentrations, it complies
      with the Committee document Principles for the Management of Credit Risk
      (September 2000) and the more detailed guidance in the Appendix to that paper.



32.13

        In the course of their activities, supervisors should assess the extent of a bank’s
        credit risk concentrations, how they are managed, and the extent to which the
        bank considers them in its internal assessment of capital adequacy under Pillar 2.
        Such assessments should include reviews of the results of a bank’s stress tests.
        Supervisors should take appropriate actions where the risks arising from a bank’s
        credit risk concentrations are not adequately addressed by the bank.


Counterparty credit risk
32.14 As counterparty credit risk (CCR) represents a form of credit risk, this would
      include meeting this Framework’s standards regarding their approaches to stress
      testing, “residual risks” associated with credit risk mitigation techniques, and
      credit concentrations, as specified in the paragraphs above.

32.15 The bank must have counterparty credit risk management policies, processes and
      systems that are conceptually sound and implemented with integrity relative to
      the sophistication and complexity of a firm’s holdings of exposures that give rise
      to CCR. A sound counterparty credit risk management framework shall include
      the identification, measurement, management, approval and internal reporting of
      CCR.

32.16 The bank’s risk management policies must take account of the market, liquidity,
      legal and operational risks that can be associated with CCR and, to the extent
      practicable, interrelationships among those risks. The bank must not undertake
      business with a counterparty without assessing its creditworthiness and must take
      due account of both settlement and pre-settlement credit risk. These risks must
      be managed as comprehensively as practicable at the counterparty level
      (aggregating counterparty exposures with other credit exposures) and at the firm-
      wide level.

32.17 The board of directors and senior management must be actively involved in the
      CCR control process and must regard this as an essential aspect of the business
      to which significant resources need to be devoted. Where the bank is using an
      internal model for CCR, senior management must be aware of the limitations and
      assumptions of the model used and the impact these can have on the reliability
      of the output. They should also consider the uncertainties of the market
      environment (eg timing of realisation of collateral) and operational issues (eg
      pricing feed irregularities) and be aware of how these are reflected in the model.

32.18 In this regard, the daily reports prepared on a firm’s exposures to CCR must be
      reviewed by a level of management with sufficient seniority and authority to
      enforce both reductions of positions taken by individual credit managers or
      traders and reductions in the firm’s overall CCR exposure.

32.19 The bank’s CCR management system must be used in conjunction with internal
      credit and trading limits. In this regard, credit and trading limits must be related
      to the firm’s risk measurement model in a manner that is consistent over time
      and that is well understood by credit managers, traders and senior management.

32.20 The measurement of CCR must include monitoring daily and intra-day usage of
      credit lines. The bank must measure current exposure gross and net of collateral
      held where such measures are appropriate and meaningful (eg over-the-counter,
      or OTC, derivatives, margin lending). Measuring and monitoring peak exposure or
      potential future exposure at a confidence level chosen by the bank at both the
      portfolio and counterparty levels is one element of a robust limit monitoring
      system. Banks must take account of large or concentrated positions, including
      concentrations by groups of related counterparties, by industry, by market,
      customer investment strategies, etc.

32.21 The bank must have a routine and rigorous program of stress testing in place as a
      supplement to the CCR analysis based on the day-to-day output of the firm’s risk
      measurement model. The results of this stress testing must be reviewed
      periodically by senior management and must be reflected in the CCR policies and
      limits set by management and the board of directors. Where stress tests reveal
      particular vulnerability to a given set of circumstances, management should
      explicitly consider appropriate risk management strategies (eg by hedging
      against that outcome, or reducing the size of the firm’s exposures).

32.22 The bank must have a routine in place for ensuring compliance with a
      documented set of internal policies, controls and procedures concerning the
      operation of the CCR management system. The firm’s CCR management system
      must be well documented, for example, through a risk management manual that
      describes the basic principles of the risk management system and that provides
      an explanation of the empirical techniques used to measure CCR.

32.23 The bank must conduct an independent review of the CCR management system
      regularly through its own internal auditing process. This review must include both
      the activities of the business credit and trading units and of the independent CCR
      control unit. A review of the overall CCR management process must take place at
      regular intervals (ideally not less than once a year) and must specifically address,
      at a minimum:

       (1) the adequacy of the documentation of the CCR management system and
           process;


      (2) the organisation of the collateral management unit;

      (3) the organisation of the CCR control unit;

      (4) the integration of CCR measures into daily risk management;

      (5) the approval process for risk pricing models and valuation systems used by
          front and back-office personnel;

      (6) the validation of any significant change in the CCR measurement process;

      (7) the scope of counterparty credit risks captured by the risk measurement
          model;

      (8) the integrity of the management information system;

      (9) the accuracy and completeness of CCR data;

      (10) the accurate reflection of legal terms in collateral and netting agreements
           into exposure measurements;

      (11) the verification of the consistency, timeliness and reliability of data sources
           used to run internal models, including the independence of such data
           sources;

      (12) the accuracy and appropriateness of volatility and correlation assumptions;

      (13) the accuracy of valuation and risk transformation calculations; and

      (14) the verification of the model’s accuracy through frequent backtesting.

32.24 A bank that receives approval to use an internal model to estimate its exposure
      amount or EAD for CCR exposures must monitor the appropriate risks and have
      processes to adjust its estimation of expected positive exposure (EPE) when those
      risks become significant. This includes the following:

      (1) Banks must identify and manage their exposures to specific wrong-way risk.

      (2) For exposures with a rising risk profile after one year, banks must compare
          on a regular basis the estimate of EPE over one year with the EPE over the
          life of the exposure.

      (3) For exposures with a short-term maturity (below one year), banks must
          compare on a regular basis the replacement cost (current exposure) and the
          realised exposure profile, and/or store data that allow such a comparisons.


32.25 When assessing an internal model used to estimate EPE, and especially for banks
      that receive approval to estimate the value of the alpha factor, supervisors must
       review the characteristics of the firm’s portfolio of exposures that give rise to
       CCR. In particular, supervisors must consider the following characteristics, namely:

       (1) the diversification of the portfolio (number of risk factors the portfolio is
           exposed to);

       (2) the correlation of default across counterparties; and

       (3) the number and granularity of counterparty exposures.

32.26 Supervisors will take appropriate action where the firm’s estimates of exposure or
      EAD under the internal models method (IMM) or alpha do not adequately reflect
      its exposure to CCR. Such action might include directing the bank to revise its
      estimates; directing the bank to apply a higher estimate of exposure or EAD
      under the IMM or alpha; or disallowing a bank from recognising internal
      estimates of EAD for regulatory capital purposes.

32.27 For banks that make use of the standardised approach to counterparty credit risk
      (SA-CCR), supervisors should review the bank’s evaluation of the risks contained
      in the transactions that give rise to CCR and the bank’s assessment of whether
      the SA-CCR captures those risks appropriately and satisfactorily. If the SA-CCR
      does not capture the risk inherent in the bank’s relevant transactions (as could be
      the case with structured, more complex OTC derivatives), supervisors may require
      the bank to apply the SA-CCR on a transaction-by-transaction basis (ie no netting
      will be recognised).


Securitisation
32.28 A bank’s on- and off-balance-sheet securitisation activities should be included in
      its risk management disciplines, such as product approval, risk concentration
      limits and estimates of market, credit and operational risk (as discussed in SRP30).

32.29 In light of the wide range of risks arising from securitisation activities, which can
      be compounded by rapid innovation in securitisation techniques and instruments,
      minimum capital requirements calculated under Pillar 1 are often insufficient. All
      risks arising from securitisation, particularly those that are not fully captured
      under Pillar 1, should be addressed in a bank’s internal capital adequacy
      assessment process (ICAAP). These risks include:

       (1) credit, market, liquidity and reputational risk of each exposure;

       (2) potential delinquencies and losses on the underlying securitised exposures;



       (3) exposures from credit lines or liquidity facilities to special purpose entities;
           and

       (4) exposures from guarantees provided by monolines and other third parties.

32.30 Securitisation exposures should be included in the bank’s management
      information systems to help ensure that senior management understands the
      implications of such exposures for liquidity, earnings, risk concentration and
      capital. More specifically, a bank should have the necessary processes in place to
      capture in a timely manner updated information on securitisation transactions
      including market data, if available, and updated performance data from the
      securitisation trustee or servicer.

32.31 A bank should conduct analyses of the underlying risks when investing in the
      structured products and must not solely rely on the external credit ratings
      assigned to securitisation exposures by the credit rating agencies. A bank should
      be aware that external ratings are a useful starting point for credit analysis, but
      are no substitute for full and proper understanding of the underlying risk,
      especially where ratings for certain asset classes have a short history or have been
      shown to be volatile. Moreover, a bank also should conduct credit analysis of the
      securitisation exposure at acquisition and on an ongoing basis. It should also
      have in place the necessary quantitative tools, valuation models and stress tests
      of sufficient sophistication to reliably assess all relevant risks.

32.32 When assessing securitisation exposures, a bank should ensure that it fully
      understands the credit quality and risk characteristics of the underlying exposures
      in structured credit transactions, including any risk concentrations. In addition, a
      bank should review the maturity of the exposures underlying structured credit
      transactions relative to the issued liabilities in order to assess potential maturity
      mismatches.

32.33 A bank should track credit risk in securitisation exposures at the transaction level
      and across securitisations exposures within each business line and across
      business lines. It should produce reliable measures of aggregate risk. A bank also
      should track all meaningful concentrations in securitisation exposures, such as
      name, product or sector concentrations, and feed this information to firm-wide
      risk aggregation systems that track, for example, credit exposure to a particular
      obligor.



32.34 A bank’s own assessment of risk needs to be based on a comprehensive
      understanding of the structure of the securitisation transaction. It should identify
      the various types of triggers, credit events and other legal provisions that may
      affect the performance of its on- and off-balance sheet exposures and integrate


       these triggers and provisions into its funding/liquidity, credit and balance sheet
       management. The impact of the events or triggers on a bank’s liquidity and
       capital position should also be considered.

32.35 A bank should consider and, where appropriate, mark-to-market warehoused
      positions, as well as those in the pipeline, regardless of the probability of
      securitising the exposures. It should consider scenarios which may prevent it from
      securitising its assets as part of its stress testing (as discussed in SRP30) and
      identify the potential effect of such exposures on its liquidity, earnings and capital
      adequacy.

32.36 A bank should develop prudent contingency plans specifying how it would
      respond to funding, capital and other pressures that arise when access to
      securitisation markets is reduced. The contingency plans should also address how
      the bank would address valuation challenges for potentially illiquid positions held
      for sale or for trading. The risk measures, stress testing results and contingency
      plans should be incorporated into the bank’s risk management processes and its
      ICAAP, and should result in an appropriate level of capital under Pillar 2 in excess
      of the minimum requirements.

32.37 A bank that employs risk mitigation techniques should fully understand the risks
      to be mitigated, the potential effects of that mitigation and whether or not the
      mitigation is fully effective. This is to help ensure that the bank does not
      understate the true risk in its assessment of capital. In particular, it should
      consider whether it would provide support to the securitisation structures in
      stressed scenarios due to the reliance on securitisation as a funding tool.

32.38 Further to the Pillar 1 principle that banks should take account of the economic
      substance of transactions in their determination of capital adequacy, supervisory
      authorities will monitor, as appropriate, whether banks have done so adequately.
      As a result, regulatory capital treatments for specific securitisation exposures
      might differ from those specified in Pillar 1 of the Framework, particularly in
      instances where the general capital requirement would not adequately and
      sufficiently reflect the risks to which an individual banking organisation is
      exposed.


32.39 Amongst other things, supervisory authorities may review where relevant a bank’s
      own assessment of its capital needs and how that has been reflected in the
      capital calculation as well as the documentation of certain transactions to

       determine whether the capital requirements accord with the risk profile (eg
       substitution clauses). Supervisors will also review the manner in which banks have
       addressed the issue of maturity mismatch in relation to retained positions in their
       economic capital calculations. In particular, they will be vigilant in monitoring for
       the structuring of maturity mismatches in transactions to artificially reduce capital
       requirements. Additionally, supervisors may review the bank’s economic capital
       assessment of actual correlation between assets in the pool and how they have
       reflected that in the calculation. Where supervisors consider that a bank’s
       approach is not adequate, they will take appropriate action. Such action might
       include denying or reducing capital relief in the case of originated assets, or
       increasing the capital required against securitisation exposures acquired.

32.40 Securitisation transactions may be carried out for purposes other than credit risk
      transfer (eg funding). Where this is the case, there might still be a limited transfer
      of credit risk. However, for an originating bank to achieve reductions in capital
      requirements, the risk transfer arising from a securitisation has to be deemed
      significant by the national supervisory authority. If the risk transfer is considered
      to be insufficient or non-existent, the supervisory authority can require the
      application of a higher capital requirement than prescribed under Pillar 1 or,
      alternatively, may deny a bank from obtaining any capital relief from the
      securitisations. Therefore, the capital relief that can be achieved will correspond
      to the amount of credit risk that is effectively transferred. The following includes a
      set of examples where supervisors may have concerns about the degree of risk
      transfer, such as retaining or repurchasing significant amounts of risk or “cherry
      picking” the exposures to be transferred via a securitisation.

32.41 Retaining or repurchasing significant securitisation exposures, depending on the
      proportion of risk held by the originator, might undermine the intent of a
      securitisation to transfer credit risk. Specifically, supervisory authorities might
      expect that a significant portion of the credit risk and of the nominal value of the
      pool be transferred to at least one independent third party at inception and on
      an ongoing basis. Where banks repurchase risk for market-making purposes,
      supervisors could find it appropriate for an originator to buy part of a transaction
      but not, for example, to repurchase a whole tranche. Supervisors would expect
      that where positions have been bought for market making purposes, these
      positions should be resold within an appropriate period, thereby remaining true
      to the initial intention to transfer risk.



32.42 Another implication of realising only a non-significant risk transfer, especially if
      related to good quality unrated exposures, is that both the poorer quality unrated
      assets and most of the credit risk embedded in the exposures underlying the

       securitised transaction are likely to remain with the originator. Accordingly, and
       depending on the outcome of the supervisory review process, the supervisory
       authority may increase the capital requirement for particular exposures or even
       increase the overall level of capital the bank is required to hold.

32.43 As the minimum capital requirements for securitisation may not be able to
      address all potential issues, supervisory authorities are expected to consider new
      features of securitisation transactions as they arise. Such assessments would
      include reviewing the impact new features may have on credit risk transfer and,
      where appropriate, supervisors will be expected to take appropriate action under
      Pillar 2. A Pillar 1 response may be formulated to take account of market
      innovations. Such a response may take the form of a set of operational
      requirements and/or a specific capital treatment.

32.44 Support to a transaction, whether contractual (ie credit enhancements provided
      at the inception of a securitised transaction) or non-contractual (implicit support)
      can take numerous forms. For instance, contractual support can include over
      collateralisation, credit derivatives, spread accounts, contractual recourse
      obligations, subordinated notes, credit risk mitigants provided to a specific
      tranche, the subordination of fee or interest income or the deferral of margin
      income, and clean-up calls that exceed 10 percent of the initial issuance. In
      contrast to contractual credit exposures, such as guarantees, implicit support is a
      more subtle form of exposure. Implicit support arises when a bank provides post-
      sale support to a securitisation transaction in excess of any contractual obligation.
      Such non-contractual support exposes a bank to the risk of loss, such as loss
      arising from deterioration in the credit quality of the securitisation’s underlying
      assets. Examples of implicit support include the purchase of deteriorating credit
      risk exposures from the underlying pool, the sale of discounted credit risk
      exposures into the pool of securitised credit risk exposures, the purchase of
      underlying exposures at above market price or an increase in the first loss
      position according to the deterioration of the underlying exposures.



32.45 The provision of implicit (or non-contractual) support, as opposed to contractual
      credit support (ie credit enhancements), raises significant supervisory concerns.
      By providing implicit support, a bank signals to the market that all of the risks
      inherent in the securitised assets are still held by the organisation and, in effect,
      had not been transferred. For traditional securitisation structures the provision of
      implicit support undermines the clean break criteria, which when satisfied would
      allow banks to exclude the securitised assets from regulatory capital calculations.
      For synthetic securitisation structures, it negates the significance of risk
      transference. By providing implicit support, banks signal to the market that the

       risk is still with the bank and has not in effect been transferred. The institution’s
       capital calculation therefore understates the true risk. Accordingly, national
       supervisors are expected to take appropriate action when a banking organisation
       provides implicit support.

32.46 Since the risk arising from the potential provision of implicit support is not
      captured ex ante under Pillar 1, it must be considered as part of the Pillar 2
      process. In addition, the processes for approving new products or strategic
      initiatives should consider the potential provision of implicit support and should
      be incorporated in a bank’s ICAAP. When a bank has been found to provide
      implicit support to a securitisation, it will be required to hold capital against all of
      the underlying exposures associated with the structure as if they had not been
      securitised. It will also be required to disclose publicly that it was found to have
      provided non-contractual support, as well as the resulting increase in the capital
      charge (as noted above). The aim is to require banks to hold capital against
      exposures for which they assume the credit risk, and to discourage them from
      providing non-contractual support.

32.47 If a bank is found to have provided implicit support on more than one occasion,
      the bank is required to disclose its transgression publicly and national supervisors
      will take appropriate action that may include, but is not limited to, one or more of
      the following:

       (1) the bank may be prevented from gaining favourable capital treatment on
           securitised assets for a period of time to be determined by the national
           supervisor;

       (2) the bank may be required to hold capital against all securitised assets as
           though the bank had created a commitment to them, by applying a
           conversion factor to the risk weight of the underlying assets;

       (3) for purposes of capital calculations, the bank may be required to treat all
           securitised assets as if they remained on the balance sheet;


       (4) the bank may be required by its national supervisory authority to hold
           regulatory capital in excess of the minimum risk-based capital ratios.

32.48 Supervisors will be vigilant in determining implicit support and will take
      appropriate supervisory action to mitigate the effects. Pending any investigation,
      the bank may be prohibited from any capital relief for planned securitisation
      transactions (moratorium). National supervisory response will be aimed at
      changing the bank’s behaviour with regard to the provision of implicit support,
      and to correct market perception as to the willingness of the bank to provide
      future recourse beyond contractual obligations.

32.49 As with credit risk mitigation techniques more generally, supervisors will review
      the appropriateness of banks’ approaches to the recognition of credit protection.
      In particular, with regard to securitisations, supervisors will review the
      appropriateness of protection recognised against first loss credit enhancements.
      On these positions, expected loss is less likely to be a significant element of the
      risk and is likely to be retained by the protection buyer through the pricing.
      Therefore, supervisors will expect banks’ policies to take account of this in
      determining their economic capital. Where supervisors do not consider the
      approach to protection recognised is adequate, they will take appropriate action.
      Such action may include increasing the capital requirement against a particular
      transaction or class of transactions.

32.50 Supervisors expect a bank not to make use of clauses that entitles it to call the
      securitisation transaction or the coverage of credit protection prematurely if this
      would increase the bank’s exposure to losses or deterioration in the credit quality
      of the underlying exposures.

32.51 Besides the general principle stated above, supervisors expect banks to only
      execute clean-up calls for economic business purposes, such as when the cost of
      servicing the outstanding credit exposures exceeds the benefits of servicing the
      underlying credit exposures.

32.52 Subject to national discretion, supervisory authorities may require a review prior
      to the bank exercising a call which can be expected to include consideration of:

       (1) the rationale for the bank’s decision to exercise the call; and

       (2) the impact of the exercise of the call on the bank’s regulatory capital ratio.

32.53 The supervisory authority may also require the bank to enter into a follow-up
      transaction, if necessary, depending on the bank’s overall risk profile, and existing
      market conditions.



32.54 Date-related calls should be set at a date no earlier than the duration or the
      weighted average life of the underlying securitisation exposures. Accordingly,

       supervisory authorities may require a minimum period to elapse before the first
       possible call date can be set, given, for instance, the existence of up-front sunk
       costs of a capital market securitisation transaction.

32.55 Supervisors should review how banks internally measure, monitor and manage
      risks associated with securitisations of revolving credit facilities, including an
      assessment of the risk and likelihood of early amortisation of such transactions.
      At a minimum, supervisors should ensure that banks have implemented
      reasonable methods for allocating economic capital against the economic
      substance of the credit risk arising from revolving securitisations and should
      expect banks to have adequate capital and liquidity contingency plans that
      evaluate the probability of an early amortisation occurring and address the
      implications of both scheduled and early amortisation.

32.56 Because most early amortisation triggers are tied to excess spread levels, the
      factors affecting these levels should be well understood, monitored and managed
      to the extent possible (see SRP32.44 to SRP32.48 on implicit support) by the
      originating bank. For example, the following factors affecting excess spread
      should generally be considered:

       (1) interest payments made by borrowers on the underlying receivable balances;

       (2) other fees and charges to be paid by the underlying obligors (eg late-
           payment fees, cash advance fees, over-limit fees);

       (3) gross charge-offs;

       (4) principal payments;

       (5) recoveries on charged-off loans;

       (6) interchange income;

       (7) interest paid on investors’ certificates; and

       (8) macroeconomic factors such as bankruptcy rates, interest rate movements
           and unemployment rates.



32.57 Banks should consider the effects that changes in portfolio management or
      business strategies may have on the levels of excess spread and on the likelihood
      of an early amortisation event. For example, marketing strategies or underwriting
      changes that result in lower finance charges or higher charge-offs might also
      lower excess spread levels and increase the likelihood of an early amortisation
      event.

32.58 Banks should use techniques such as static pool cash collection analyses and
      stress tests to better understand pool performance. These techniques can
      highlight adverse trends or potential adverse impacts. Banks should have policies
      in place to respond promptly to adverse or unanticipated changes. Supervisors
      will take appropriate action where they do not consider these policies adequate.
      Such action may include, but is not limited to, directing a bank to obtain a
      dedicated liquidity line or increasing the bank’s capital requirements.

32.59 Supervisors expect that the sophistication of a bank’s system in monitoring the
      likelihood and risks of an early amortisation event will be commensurate with the
      size and complexity of the bank’s securitisation activities that involve early
      amortisation provisions.

                                 SRP33
                                 Market risk
                                 This chapter describes risks that supervisors
                                 should consider when evaluating banks' market
                                 risk practices under Pillar 2.


                                 Market risk in Pillar 2
33.1   Clear policies and procedures used to determine the exposures that may be
       included in, and those that should be excluded from, the trading book for
       purposes of calculating regulatory capital are critical to ensure the consistency
       and integrity of firms’ trading book. Such policies must conform to RBC25.4.
       Supervisors should be satisfied that the policies and procedures clearly delineate
       the boundaries of the firm’s trading book, in compliance with the general
       principles set forth in RBC25, and consistent with the bank’s risk management
       capabilities and practices. Supervisors should also be satisfied that transfers of
       positions between banking and trading books can only occur in a very limited set
       of circumstances. A supervisor will require a firm to modify its policies and
       procedures when they prove insufficient for preventing the booking in the
       trading book of positions that are not compliant with the general principles set
       forth in RBC25, or not consistent with the bank’s risk management capabilities
       and practices.

33.2   Prudent valuation policies and procedures form the foundation on which any
       robust assessment of market risk capital adequacy should be built. For a well
       diversified portfolio consisting of highly liquid cash instruments, and without
       market concentration, the valuation of the portfolio, combined with the minimum
       quantitative standards set out in MAR30.14 to MAR30.17, as revised in this
       section, may deliver sufficient capital to enable a bank, in adverse market
       conditions, to close out or hedge its positions within 10 days in an orderly
       fashion. However, for less well diversified portfolios, for portfolios containing less
       liquid instruments, for portfolios with concentrations in relation to market
       turnover, and/or for portfolios which contain large numbers of positions that are
       marked-to-model this is less likely to be the case. In such circumstances,
       supervisors will consider whether a bank has sufficient capital. To the extent there
       is a shortfall the supervisor will react appropriately. This will usually require the
       bank to reduce its risks and/or hold an additional amount of capital.


33.3   A bank must ensure that it has sufficient capital to meet the minimum capital
       requirements set out in MAR30 and to cover the results of its stress testing
       required by MAR30.5, taking into account the principles set forth in SRP20.19 and
       SRP20.22. Supervisors will consider whether a bank has sufficient capital for these
       purposes, taking into account the nature and scale of the bank’s trading activities
       and any other relevant factors such as valuation adjustments made by the bank.
       To the extent that there is a shortfall, or if supervisors are not satisfied with the
       premise upon which the bank’s assessment of internal market risk capital
       adequacy is based, supervisors will take the appropriate measures. This will
       usually involve requiring the bank to reduce its risk exposures and/or to hold an
       additional amount of capital, so that its overall capital resources at least cover the
       Pillar 1 requirements plus the result of a stress test acceptable to the supervisor.

33.4   For banks wishing to model the specific risk arising from their trading activities,
       additional criteria have been set out, including conservatively assessing the risk
       arising from less liquid positions and/or positions with limited price transparency
       under realistic market scenarios. Where supervisors consider that limited liquidity
       or price transparency undermines the effectiveness of a bank’s model to capture
       the specific risk, they will take appropriate measures, including requiring the
       exclusion of positions from the bank’s specific risk model. Supervisors should
       review the adequacy of the bank’s measure of the incremental risk capital charge;
       where the bank’s approach is inadequate, the use of the standardised specific risk
       charges will be required.


                                 SRP34
                                 Operational risk
                                 Under Pillar 2, supervisors should consider
                                 whether the Pillar 1 operational risk capital
                                 requirement is consistent with its risk exposure
                                 and peers.


                              
Operational risk in Pillar 2
34.1   Gross income, used in the Basic Indicator and Standardised Approaches for
       operational risk, is only a proxy for the scale of operational risk exposure of a
       bank and can in some cases (eg for banks with low margins or profitability)
       underestimate the need for capital for operational risk.

34.2   With reference to the Committee document on Principles for the Sound
       Management of Operational Risk (June 2011), the supervisor should consider
       whether the capital requirement generated by the Pillar 1 calculation (regardless
       of the calculation approach used) gives an accurate, consistent picture of the
       individual bank’s operational risk exposure, for example in comparison with other
       banks of similar size, nature and complexity.



                                 SRP35
                                 Compensation practices
                                 Compensation practices are an important
                                 element of banks' risk management. They should
                                 be subject to rigorous and sustained review.


                                Supervisory review of compensation practices
35.1   Risk management must be embedded in the culture of a bank. It should be a
       critical focus of the chief executive officer, chief risk officer, chief operating
       officer, senior management, trading desk and other business line heads and
       employees in making strategic and day-to-day decisions. For a broad and deep
       risk management culture to develop and be maintained over time, compensation
       policies must not be unduly linked to short-term accounting profit generation.
       Compensation policies should be linked to longer-term capital preservation and
       the financial strength of the firm, and should consider risk-adjusted performance
       measures. In addition, a bank should provide adequate disclosure regarding its
       compensation policies to stakeholders. Each bank’s board of directors and senior
       management have the responsibility to mitigate the risks arising from
       remuneration policies in order to ensure effective firm-wide risk management.
Compensation practices at large financial institutions are one factor
                   among many that contributed to the financial crisis that began in
                   2007. High short-term profits led to generous bonus payments to
                   employees without adequate regard to the longer-term risks they
                   imposed on their firms. These incentives amplified the excessive risk-
                   taking that has threatened the global financial system and left firms
                   with fewer resources to absorb losses as risks materialised. The lack of
                   attention to risk also contributed to the large, in some cases extreme
                   absolute level of compensation in the industry. As a result, to improve
                   compensation practices and strengthen supervision in this area,
                   particularly for systemically important firms, the Financial Stability
                   Board published its Principles for Sound Compensation Practices in
                   April 2009. In addition, the Basel Committee published The
                   Compensation Principles and Standards Assessment Methodology in
                   January 2010 and Corporate Governance Principles for Banks in 2015.
                   These guidelines accompany this standard.


35.2   A bank’s board of directors must actively oversee the compensation system’s
       design and operation, which should not be controlled primarily by the chief
       executive officer and management team. Relevant board members and
       employees must have independence and expertise in risk management and
       compensation.



35.3   In addition, the board of directors must monitor and review the compensation
       system to ensure the system includes adequate controls and operates as
       intended. The practical operation of the system should be regularly reviewed to
       ensure compliance with policies and procedures. Compensation outcomes, risk
       measurements, and risk outcomes should be regularly reviewed for consistency
       with intentions.

35.4   Staff that are engaged in the financial and risk control areas must be
       independent, have appropriate authority, and be compensated in a manner that
       is independent of the business areas they oversee and commensurate with their
       key role in the firm. Effective independence and appropriate authority of such
       staff is necessary to preserve the integrity of financial and risk management’s
       influence on incentive compensation.

35.5   Compensation must be adjusted for all types of risk so that remuneration is
       balanced between the profit earned and the degree of risk assumed in
       generating the profit. In general, both quantitative measures and human
       judgment should play a role in determining the appropriate risk adjustments,
       including those that are difficult to measure such as liquidity risk and reputation
       risk.

35.6   Compensation outcomes must be symmetric with risk outcomes and
       compensation systems should link the size of the bonus pool to the overall
       performance of the firm. Employees’ incentive payments should be linked to the
       contribution of the individual and business to the firm’s overall performance.

35.7   Compensation payout schedules must be sensitive to the time horizon of risks.
       Profits and losses of different activities of a financial firm are realised over
       different periods of time. Variable compensation payments should be deferred
       accordingly. Payments should not be finalised over short periods where risks are
       realised over long periods. Management should question payouts for income that
       cannot be realised or whose likelihood of realisation remains uncertain at the
       time of payout.

35.8   The mix of cash, equity and other forms of compensation must be consistent with
       risk alignment. The mix will vary depending on the employee’s position and role.
       The firm should be able to explain the rationale for its mix.



35.9   Supervisory review of compensation practices must be rigorous and sustained,
       and deficiencies must be addressed promptly with the appropriate supervisory
       action. Supervisors should include compensation practices in their risk
       assessment of firms, and firms should work constructively with supervisors to
       ensure their practices are adequate. Regulations and supervisory practices will




       naturally differ across jurisdictions and potentially among authorities within a
       country. Nevertheless, all supervisors should strive for effective review and
       intervention.


                                 SRP36
                                 Risk data aggregation and
                                 risk reporting
                                 These principles for effective risk data
                                 aggregation and internal risk reporting practices
                                 apply to systemically important banks and
                                 support internal risk management and decision-
                                 making processes.


                                 Objectives
36.1   This chapter presents a set of principles to strengthen banks’ risk data
       aggregation capabilities and internal risk reporting practices (the Principles). The
       Principles are expected to support a bank’s efforts to:

       (1) enhance the infrastructure for reporting key information, particularly that
           used by the board and senior management to identify, monitor and manage
           risks;

       (2) improve the decision-making process throughout the banking organisation;

       (3) enhance the management of information across legal entities, while
           facilitating a comprehensive assessment of risk exposures at the global
           consolidated level;

       (4) reduce the probability and severity of losses resulting from risk management
           weaknesses;

       (5) improve the speed at which information is available and hence decisions can
           be made; and

       (6) improve the organisation’s quality of strategic planning and the ability to
           manage the risk of new products and services.

36.2   Strong risk management capabilities are an integral part of the franchise value of
       a bank. Effective implementation of the Principles should increase the value of
       the bank. The Committee believes that the long-term benefits of improved risk
       data aggregation capabilities and risk reporting practices will outweigh the
       investment costs incurred by banks.

36.3   For bank supervisors, these Principles will complement other efforts to improve
       the intensity and effectiveness of bank supervision. For resolution authorities,
       improved risk data aggregation should enable smoother bank resolution, thereby
       reducing the potential recourse to taxpayers.


Scope and general provisions
36.4   These Principles apply to systemically important banks (SIBs) and apply at both
       the banking group and on a solo basis.



36.5   The Principles and supervisory expectations contained in SRP36 apply to a bank’s
       risk management data. This includes data that is critical to enabling the bank to
       manage the risks it faces. Risk data and reports should provide management with
       the ability to monitor and track risks relative to the bank’s risk tolerance/appetite.

36.6   These Principles also apply to all key internal risk management models, including
       but not limited to, Pillar 1 regulatory capital models (eg internal ratings-based
       approaches for credit risk and advanced measurement approaches for
       operational risk), Pillar 2 capital models and other key risk management models
       (eg value-at-risk).

36.7   The Principles apply to a bank’s group risk management processes. However,
       banks may also benefit from applying the Principles to other processes, such as
       financial and operational processes, as well as supervisory reporting.

36.8   All the Principles are also applicable to processes that have been outsourced to
       third parties.

36.9   The Principles cover four closely related topics:

       (1) Overarching governance and infrastructure (Principles 1 and 2)

       (2) Risk data aggregation capabilities (Principles 3, 4, 5 and 6)

       (3) Risk reporting practices (Principles 7, 8, 9, 10 and 11)

       (4) Supervisory review, tools and cooperation (Principles 12, 13 and 14)

36.10 Risk data aggregation capabilities and risk reporting practices are considered
      separately in this paper, but they are clearly inter-linked and cannot exist in
      isolation. High quality risk management reports rely on the existence of strong
      risk data aggregation capabilities, and sound infrastructure and governance
      ensures the information flow from one to the other.

36.11 Banks should meet all risk data aggregation and risk reporting principles
      simultaneously. However, trade-offs among Principles could be accepted in
      exceptional circumstances such as urgent/ad hoc requests of information on new
      or unknown areas of risk. There should be no trade-offs that materially impact
      risk management decisions. Decision-makers at banks, in particular the board and
      senior management, should be aware of these trade-offs and the limitations or
      shortcomings associated with them. Supervisors expect banks to have policies
      and processes in place regarding the application of trade-offs. Banks should be
      able to explain the impact of these trade-offs on their decision-making process
      through qualitative reports and, to the extent possible, quantitative measures.


36.12 A bank should have in place a strong governance framework, risk data
      architecture and information technology (IT) infrastructure. These are
       preconditions to ensure compliance with the other Principles included in this
       chapter. In particular, a bank’s board should oversee senior management’s
       ownership of implementing all the risk data aggregation and risk reporting
       principles and the strategy to meet them within a timeframe agreed with their
       supervisors.

36.13 The concept of materiality used in SRP36 means that data and reports can
      exceptionally exclude information only if it does not affect the decision-making
      process in a bank (ie decision-makers, in particular the board and senior
      management, would have been influenced by the omitted information or made a
      different judgment if the correct information had been known). In applying the
      materiality concept, banks will take into account considerations that go beyond
      the number or size of the exposures not included, such as the type of risks
      involved, or the evolving and dynamic nature of the banking business. Banks
      should also take into account the potential future impact of the information
      excluded on the decision-making process at their institutions. Supervisors expect
      banks to be able to explain the omissions of information as a result of applying
      the materiality concept.

36.14 Banks should develop forward looking reporting capabilities to provide early
      warnings of any potential breaches of risk limits that may exceed the bank’s risk
      tolerance/appetite. These risk reporting capabilities should also allow banks to
      conduct a flexible and effective stress testing which is capable of providing
      forward-looking risk assessments. Supervisors expect risk management reports to
      enable banks to anticipate problems and provide a forward looking assessment
      of risk.

36.15 Expert judgment may occasionally be applied to incomplete data to facilitate the
      aggregation process, as well as the interpretation of results within the risk
      reporting process. Reliance on expert judgment in place of complete and
      accurate data should occur only on an exception basis, and should not materially
      impact the bank’s compliance with the Principles. When expert judgment is
      applied, supervisors expect that the process be clearly documented and
      transparent so as to allow for an independent review of the process followed and
      the criteria used in the decision-making process.



Definitions
36.16 For the purpose of SRP36, the term “risk data aggregation” means defining,
      gathering and processing risk data according to the bank’s risk reporting
      requirements to enable the bank to measure its performance against its risk
      tolerance/appetite. This includes sorting, merging or breaking down sets of data.

36.17 In this chapter, the following terms should be interpreted as follows:

       (1) “Accuracy” means closeness of agreement between a measurement or
           record or representation and the value to be measured, recorded or
           represented. This definition applies to both risk data aggregation and risk
           reports.

       (2) “Adaptability” means the ability of risk data aggregation capabilities to
           change (or be changed) in response to changed circumstances (internal or
           external).

       (3) “Approximation” means a result that is not necessarily exact, but acceptable
           for its given purpose.

       (4) “Clarity” means the ability of risk reporting to be easily understood and free
           from indistinctness or ambiguity.

       (5) “Completeness” means availability of relevant risk data aggregated across all
           firm's constituent units (eg legal entities, business lines, jurisdictions).

       (6) “Comprehensiveness” means the extent to which risk reports include or deal
           with all risks relevant to the firm.

       (7) “Distribution” means ensuring that the adequate people or groups receive
           the appropriate risk reports.

       (8) “Frequency” means the rate at which risk reports are produced over time.

       (9) “Integrity” means freedom of risk data from unauthorised alteration and
           unauthorised manipulation that compromise its accuracy, completeness and
           reliability.

       (10) “Manual workarounds” means employing human-based processes and
            tools to transfer, manipulate or alter data used to be aggregated or
            reported.

       (11) “Precision” means closeness of agreement between indications or
            measured quantity values obtained by replicating measurements on the
            same or similar objects under specified conditions.


       (12) “Reconciliation” means the process of comparing items or outcomes and
            explaining the differences.

       (13) “Risk tolerance/appetite” means the level and type of risk a firm is able and
            willing to assume in its exposures and business activities, given its business
            and obligations to stakeholders. It is generally expressed through both
            quantitative and qualitative means.

       (14) “Timeliness” means the availability of aggregated risk data within such a
            timeframe as to enable a bank to produce risk reports at an established
            frequency.

       (15) “Validation” means the process by which the correctness (or not) of inputs,
            processing, and outputs is identified and quantified.


Summary of the Principles
36.18 The Principles for effective risk data aggregation and risk reporting are
      summarised as follows.

       (1) Governance - A bank’s risk data aggregation capabilities and risk reporting
           practices should be subject to strong governance arrangements consistent
           with other principles and guidance established by the Basel Committee.

       (2) Data architecture and IT infrastructure – A bank should design, build and
           maintain data architecture and IT infrastructure which fully supports its risk
           data aggregation capabilities and risk reporting practices not only in normal
           times but also during times of stress or crisis, while still meeting the other
           Principles.

       (3) Accuracy and Integrity – A bank should be able to generate accurate and
           reliable risk data to meet normal and stress/crisis reporting accuracy
           requirements. Data should be aggregated on a largely automated basis so as
           to minimise the probability of errors.

       (4) Completeness – A bank should be able to capture and aggregate all material
           risk data across the banking group. Data should be available by business
           line, legal entity, asset type, industry, region and other groupings, as relevant
           for the risk in question, that permit identifying and reporting risk exposures,
           concentrations and emerging risks.

     (5) Timeliness – A bank should be able to generate aggregate and up-to-date
         risk data in a timely manner while also meeting the principles relating to
         accuracy and integrity, completeness and adaptability. The precise timing will
         depend upon the nature and potential volatility of the risk being measured
         as well as its criticality to the overall risk profile of the bank. The precise
         timing will also depend on the bank-specific frequency requirements for risk
         management reporting, under both normal and stress/crisis situations, set
         based on the characteristics and overall risk profile of the bank.

     (6) Adaptability – A bank should be able to generate aggregate risk data to
         meet a broad range of on-demand, ad hoc risk management reporting
         requests, including requests during stress/crisis situations, requests due to
         changing internal needs and requests to meet supervisory queries.

     (7) Accuracy – Risk management reports should accurately and precisely convey
         aggregated risk data and reflect risk in an exact manner. Reports should be
         reconciled and validated.

     (8) Comprehensiveness – Risk management reports should cover all material risk
         areas within the organisation. The depth and scope of these reports should
         be consistent with the size and complexity of the bank’s operations and risk
         profile, as well as the requirements of the recipients.

     (9) Clarity and usefulness – Risk management reports should communicate
         information in a clear and concise manner. Reports should be easy to
         understand yet comprehensive enough to facilitate informed decision-
         making. Reports should include an appropriate balance between risk data,
         analysis and interpretation, and qualitative explanations. Reports should
         include meaningful information tailored to the needs of the recipients.

     (10) Frequency – The board and senior management (or other recipients as
          appropriate) should set the frequency of risk management report
          production and distribution. Frequency requirements should reflect the
          needs of the recipients, the nature of the risk reported, and the speed at
          which the risk can change, as well as the importance of reports in
          contributing to sound risk management and effective and efficient decision-
          making across the bank. The frequency of reports should be increased
          during times of stress/crisis.

     (11) Distribution – Risk management reports should be distributed to the
          relevant parties and while ensuring confidentiality is maintained.

     (12) Supervisory review – Supervisors should periodically review and evaluate a
          bank’s compliance with the eleven Principles above.


       (13) Remedial actions and supervisory measures – Supervisors should have and
            use the appropriate tools and resources to require effective and timely
            remedial action by a bank to address deficiencies in its risk data
            aggregation capabilities and risk reporting practices. Supervisors should
            have the ability to use a range of tools, including Pillar 2.

       (14) Home/host cooperation – Supervisors should cooperate with relevant
            supervisors in other jurisdictions regarding the supervision and review of
            the Principles, and the implementation of any remedial action if necessary.


 For instance, the Basel Committee’s Corporate governance principles
                   for banks (July 2015).



Principle 1 – Governance
36.19 A bank’s board and senior management should promote the identification,
      assessment and management of data-quality risks as part of its overall risk-
      management framework. The framework should include agreed service-level
      standards for both outsourced and in-house risk data-related processes, and a
      firm’s policies on data confidentiality, integrity and availability, as well as risk-
      management policies.

36.20 A bank’s board and senior management should review and approve the bank’s
      group risk data aggregation and risk reporting framework and ensure that
      adequate resources are deployed.

36.21 A bank’s risk data aggregation capabilities and risk reporting practices should be:



     (1) Fully documented and subject to high standards of validation. This validation
         should be independent and review the bank’s compliance with the Principles
         in this document. The primary purpose of the independent validation is to
         ensure that a bank's risk data aggregation and reporting processes are
         functioning as intended and are appropriate for the bank's risk profile.
         Independent validation activities should be aligned and integrated with the
         other independent review activities within the bank's risk management
         program, and encompass all components of the bank's risk data
         aggregation and reporting processes. Common practices suggest that the
         independent validation of risk data aggregation and risk reporting practices
         should be conducted using staff with specific IT, data and reporting expertise.
         


     (2) Considered as part of any new initiatives, including acquisitions and/or
         divestitures, new product development, as well as broader process and IT
         change initiatives. When considering a material acquisition, a bank’s due
         diligence process should assess the risk data aggregation capabilities and
         risk reporting practices of the acquired entity, as well as the impact on its
         own risk data aggregation capabilities and risk reporting practices. The
         impact on risk data aggregation should be considered explicitly by the board
         and inform the decision to proceed. The bank should establish a timeframe
         to integrate and align the acquired risk data aggregation capabilities and risk
         reporting practices within its own framework.

     (3) Unaffected by the bank’s group structure. The group structure should not
         hinder risk data aggregation capabilities at a consolidated level or at any
         relevant level within the organisation (eg sub-consolidated level, jurisdiction
         of operation level). In particular, risk data aggregation capabilities should be
         independent from the choices a bank makes regarding its legal organisation
         and geographical presence.


 In particular the so-called “second line of defence” within the bank’s
                 internal control system.

Furthermore, validation should be conducted separately from audit
                 work to ensure full adherence to the distinction between the second
                 and third lines of defence, within a bank's internal control system. See,
                 inter alia, Principles 2 and 13 in the Basel Committee’s Internal Audit
                 Function in Banks (June 2012).

 While taking into account any legal impediments to sharing data
                 across jurisdictions.


36.22 A bank’s senior management should be fully aware of and understand the
      limitations that prevent full risk data aggregation, in terms of coverage (eg risks
      not captured or subsidiaries not included), in technical terms (eg model
      performance indicators or degree of reliance on manual processes) or in legal
      terms (legal impediments to data sharing across jurisdictions). Senior
      management should ensure that the bank’s IT strategy includes ways to improve
      risk data aggregation capabilities and risk reporting practices and to remedy any
      shortcomings against the Principles taking into account the evolving needs of the
      business. Senior management should also identify data critical to risk data
      aggregation and IT infrastructure initiatives through its strategic IT planning
      process, and support these initiatives through the allocation of appropriate levels
      of financial and human resources.

36.23 A bank’s board is responsible for determining its own risk reporting requirements
      and should be aware of limitations that prevent full risk data aggregation in the
      reports it receives. The board should also be aware of the bank’s implementation
      of, and ongoing compliance with the Principles.


Principle 2 – data architecture and IT infrastructure
36.24 Risk data aggregation capabilities and risk reporting practices should be given
      direct consideration as part of a bank’s business continuity planning processes
      and be subject to a business impact analysis.

36.25 A bank should establish integrated data taxonomies and architecture across the
      banking group, which includes information on the characteristics of the data
      (metadata), as well as use of single identifiers and/or unified naming conventions
      for data including legal entities, counterparties, customers and accounts.

 Banks do not necessarily need to have one data model; rather, there
                   should be robust automated reconciliation procedures where multiple
                   models are in use.




36.26 Roles and responsibilities should be established as they relate to the ownership
      and quality of risk data and information for both the business and IT functions.
      The owners (business and IT functions), in partnership with risk managers, should
      ensure there are adequate controls throughout the lifecycle of the data and for
      all aspects of the technology infrastructure. The role of the business owner
      includes ensuring data is correctly entered by the relevant front office unit, kept



       current and aligned with the data definitions, and also ensuring that risk data
       aggregation capabilities and risk reporting practices are consistent with firms’
       policies.


Principle 3 – accuracy and integrity
36.27 A bank should aggregate risk data in a way that is accurate and reliable.

       (1) Controls surrounding risk data should be as robust as those applicable to
           accounting data.

       (2) Where a bank relies on manual processes and desktop applications (eg
           spreadsheets, databases) and has specific risk units that use these
           applications for software development, it should have effective mitigants in
           place (eg end-user computing policies and procedures) and other effective
           controls that are consistently applied across the bank’s processes.

       (3) Risk data should be reconciled with bank’s sources, including accounting
           data where appropriate, to ensure that the risk data is accurate.

       (4) A bank should strive towards a single authoritative source for risk data per
           each type of risk.

       (5) A bank’s risk personnel should have sufficient access to risk data to ensure
           they can appropriately aggregate, validate and reconcile the data to risk
           reports.

36.28 As a precondition, a bank should have a “dictionary” of the concepts used, such
      that data is defined consistently across an organisation.

36.29 There should be an appropriate balance between automated and manual
      systems. Where professional judgements are required, human intervention may
      be appropriate. For many other processes, a higher degree of automation is
      desirable to reduce the risk of errors.


36.30 Supervisors expect banks to document and explain all of their risk data
      aggregation processes whether automated or manual (judgment-based or

       otherwise). Documentation should include an explanation of the appropriateness
       of any manual workarounds, a description of their criticality to the accuracy of
       risk data aggregation and proposed actions to reduce the impact.

36.31 Supervisors expect banks to measure and monitor the accuracy of data and to
      develop appropriate escalation channels and action plans to be in place to rectify
      poor data quality.


Principle 4 – completeness
36.32 A bank’s risk data aggregation capabilities should include all material risk
      exposures, including those that are off-balance sheet.

36.33 A banking organisation is not required to express all forms of risk in a common
      metric or basis, but risk data aggregation capabilities should be the same
      regardless of the choice of risk aggregation systems implemented. However, each
      system should make clear the specific approach used to aggregate exposures for
      any given risk measure, in order to allow the board and senior management to
      assess the results properly.

36.34 Supervisors expect banks to produce aggregated risk data that is complete and
      to measure and monitor the completeness of their risk data. Where risk data is
      not entirely complete, the impact should not be critical to the bank’s ability to
      manage its risks effectively. Supervisors expect banks’ data to be materially
      complete, with any exceptions identified and explained.


Principle 5 – timeliness
36.35 A bank’s risk data aggregation capabilities should ensure that it is able to
      produce aggregate risk information on a timely basis to meet all risk
      management reporting requirements.

36.36 The Basel Committee acknowledges that different types of data will be required
      at different speeds, depending on the type of risk, and that certain risk data may
      be needed faster in a stress/crisis situation. Banks need to build their risk systems
      to be capable of producing aggregated risk data rapidly during times of stress
      /crisis for all critical risks.

36.37 Critical risks include but are not limited to:


       (1) The aggregated credit exposure to a large corporate borrower. By
           comparison, groups of retail exposures may not change as critically in a short
           period of time but may still include significant concentrations;

       (2) Counterparty credit risk exposures, including, for example, derivatives;

       (3) Trading exposures, positions, operating limits, and market concentrations by
           sector and region data;

       (4) Liquidity risk indicators such as cash flows/settlements and funding; and

       (5) Operational risk indicators that are time-critical (eg systems availability,
           unauthorised access).

36.38 Supervisors will review that the bank specific frequency requirements, for both
      normal and stress/crisis situations, generate aggregate and up-to-date risk data
      in a timely manner.


Principle 6 – adaptability
36.39 A bank’s risk data aggregation capabilities should be flexible and adaptable to
      meet ad hoc data requests, as needed, and to assess emerging risks. Adaptability
      will enable banks to conduct better risk management, including forecasting
      information, as well as to support stress testing and scenario analyses.

36.40 Adaptability includes:

       (1) Data aggregation processes that are flexible and enable risk data to be
           aggregated for assessment and quick decision-making;

       (2) Capabilities for data customisation to users’ needs (eg dashboards, key
           takeaways, anomalies), to drill down as needed, and to produce quick
           summary reports;

       (3) Capabilities to incorporate new developments on the organisation of the
           business and/or external factors that influence the bank’s risk profile; and

       (4) Capabilities to incorporate changes in the regulatory framework.
36.41 Supervisors expect banks to be able to generate subsets of data based on
      requested scenarios or resulting from economic events. For example, a bank
      should be able to aggregate risk data quickly on country credit exposures as of a



       specified date based on a list of countries, as well as industry credit exposures as
       of a specified date based on a list of industry types across all business lines and
       geographic areas.

Including, for instance, sovereign, bank, corporate and retail exposures.



Principle 7 – accuracy
36.42 Risk management reports should be accurate and precise to ensure a bank’s
      board and senior management can rely with confidence on the aggregated
      information to make critical decisions about risk.

36.43 To ensure the accuracy of the reports, a bank should maintain, at a minimum, the
      following:

       (1) Defined requirements and processes to reconcile reports to risk data;

       (2) Automated and manual edit and reasonableness checks, including an
           inventory of the validation rules that are applied to quantitative information.
           The inventory should include explanations of the conventions used to
           describe any mathematical or logical relationships that should be verified
           through these validations or checks; and

       (3) Integrated procedures for identifying, reporting and explaining data errors or
           weaknesses in data integrity via exceptions reports.

36.44 Approximations are an integral part of risk reporting and risk management.
      Results from models, scenario analyses, and stress testing are examples of
      approximations that provide critical information for managing risk. While the
      expectations for approximations may be different than for other types of risk
      reporting, banks should follow the reporting principles in SRP36 and establish
      expectations for the reliability of approximations (accuracy, timeliness etc) to
      ensure that management can rely with confidence on the information to make
      critical decisions about risk. This includes principles regarding data used to drive
      these approximations.



36.45
        Supervisors expect that a bank’s senior management should establish accuracy
        and precision requirements for both regular and stress/crisis reporting, including
        critical position and exposure information. These requirements should reflect the
        criticality of decisions that will be based on this information.

36.46 Supervisors expect banks to consider accuracy requirements analogous to
      accounting materiality. For example, if omission or misstatement could influence
      the risk decisions of users, this may be considered material. A bank should be
      able to support the rationale for accuracy requirements. Supervisors expect a
      bank to consider precision requirements based on validation, testing or
      reconciliation processes and results.


Principle 8 – comprehensiveness
36.47 Risk management reports should include exposure and position information for
      all significant risk areas (eg credit risk, market risk, liquidity risk, operational risk)
      and all significant components of those risk areas (eg single name, country and
      industry sector for credit risk). Risk management reports should also cover risk-
      related measures (eg regulatory and economic capital).

36.48 Reports should identify emerging risk concentrations, provide information in the
      context of limits and risk appetite/tolerance and propose recommendations for
      action where appropriate. Risk reports should include the current status of
      measures agreed by the board or senior management to reduce risk or deal with
      specific risk situations. This includes providing the ability to monitor emerging
      trends through forward-looking forecasts and stress tests.

36.49 Supervisors expect banks to determine risk reporting requirements that best suit
      their own business models and risk profiles. Supervisors will need to be satisfied
      with the choices a bank makes in terms of risk coverage, analysis and
      interpretation, scalability and comparability across group institutions. For
      example, an aggregated risk report should include, but not be limited to, the
      following information: capital adequacy, regulatory capital, capital and liquidity
      ratio projections, credit risk, market risk, operational risk, liquidity risk, stress
      testing results, inter- and intra-risk concentrations, and funding positions and
      plans.

36.50 Supervisors expect that risk management reports to the board and senior
      management provide a forward-looking assessment of risk and should not just
      rely on current and past data. The reports should contain forecasts or scenarios
      for key market variables and the effects on the bank so as to inform the board
      and senior management of the likely trajectory of the bank’s capital and risk
      profile in the future.



Principle 9 – clarity and usefulness
36.51 A bank’s risk reports should contribute to sound risk management and decision-
      making by their relevant recipients, including, in particular, the board and senior
      management. Risk reports should ensure that information is meaningful and
      tailored to the needs of the recipients.

36.52 Reports should include an appropriate balance between risk data, analysis and
      interpretation, and qualitative explanations. The balance of qualitative versus
      quantitative information will vary at different levels within the organisation and
      will also depend on the level of aggregation that is applied to the reports. Higher
      up in the organisation, more aggregation is expected and therefore a greater
      degree of qualitative interpretation will be necessary.

36.53 Reporting policies and procedures should recognise the differing information
      needs of the board, senior management, and the other levels of the organisation
      (for example risk committees).

36.54 As one of the key recipients of risk management reports, the bank’s board is
      responsible for determining its own risk reporting requirements and complying
      with its obligations to shareholders and other relevant stakeholders. The board
      should ensure that it is asking for and receiving relevant information that will
      allow it to fulfil its governance mandate relating to the bank and the risks to
      which it is exposed. This will allow the board to ensure it is operating within its
      risk tolerance/appetite.

36.55 The board should alert senior management when risk reports do not meet its
      requirements and do not provide the right level and type of information to set
      and monitor adherence to the bank’s risk tolerance/appetite. The board should
      indicate whether it is receiving the right balance of detail and quantitative versus
      qualitative information.

36.56 Senior management is also a key recipient of risk reports and it is responsible for
      determining its own risk reporting requirements. Senior management should
      ensure that it is receiving relevant information that will allow it to fulfil its
      management mandate relative to the bank and the risks to which it is exposed.

36.57 A bank should develop an inventory and classification of risk data items which
      includes a reference to the concepts used to elaborate the reports.

36.58 Supervisors expect that reports will be clear and useful. Reports should reflect an
      appropriate balance between detailed data, qualitative discussion, explanation
      and recommended conclusions. Interpretation and explanations of the data,
      including observed trends, should be clear.




36.59 Supervisors expect a bank to confirm periodically with recipients that the
      information aggregated and reported is relevant and appropriate, in terms of
      both amount and quality, to the governance and decision-making process.


Principle 10 – frequency
36.60 The frequency of risk reports will vary according to the type of risk, purpose and
      recipients. A bank should assess periodically the purpose of each report and set
      requirements for how quickly the reports need to be produced in both normal
      and stress/crisis situations. A bank should routinely test its ability to produce
      accurate reports within established timeframes, particularly in stress/crisis
      situations.

36.61 Supervisors expect that in times of stress/crisis all relevant and critical credit,
      market and liquidity position/exposure reports are available within a very short
      period of time to react effectively to evolving risks. Some position/exposure
      information may be needed immediately (intraday) to allow for timely and
      effective reactions.


Principle 11 – distribution
36.62 Procedures should be in place to allow for rapid collection and analysis of risk
      data and timely dissemination of reports to all appropriate recipients. This should
      be balanced with the need to ensure confidentiality as appropriate.

36.63 Supervisors expect a bank to confirm periodically that the relevant recipients
      receive timely reports.


Principle 12 – supervisory review
36.64 Supervisors should review a bank’s compliance with the Principles in the
      preceding sections. Reviews should be incorporated into the regular programme
      of supervisory reviews and may be supplemented by thematic reviews covering
      multiple banks with respect to a single or selected issue. Supervisors may test a
      bank’s compliance with the Principles through occasional requests for
      information to be provided on selected risk issues (for example, exposures to
      certain risk factors) within short deadlines, thereby testing the capacity of a bank
      to aggregate risk data rapidly and produce risk reports. Supervisors should have
      access to the appropriate reports to be able to perform this review.



36.65 Supervisors should draw on reviews conducted by the internal or external
      auditors to inform their assessments of compliance with the Principles.
      Supervisors may require work to be carried out by a bank’s internal audit
       functions or by experts independent from the bank. Supervisors must have access
       to all appropriate documents such as internal validation and audit reports, and
       should be able to meet with and discuss risk data aggregation capabilities with
       the external auditors or independent experts from the bank, when appropriate.

36.66 Supervisors should test a bank’s capabilities to aggregate data and produce
      reports in both stress/crisis and steady-state environments, including sudden
      sharp increases in business volumes.


Principle 13 – remedial actions and supervisory measures
36.67 Supervisors should require effective and timely remedial action by a bank to
      address deficiencies in its risk data aggregation capabilities and risk reporting
      practices and internal controls.

36.68 Supervisors should have a range of tools at their disposal to address material
      deficiencies in a bank’s risk data aggregation and reporting capabilities. Such
      tools may include, but are not limited to, requiring a bank to take remedial
      action; increasing the intensity of supervision; requiring an independent review by
      a third party, such as external auditors; and the possible use of capital add-ons as
      both a risk mitigant and incentive under Pillar 2.

36.69 Supervisors should be able to set limits on a bank’s risks or the growth in their
      activities where deficiencies in risk data aggregation and reporting are assessed
      as causing significant weaknesses in risk management capabilities.

36.70 For new business initiatives, supervisors may require that banks’ implementation
      plans ensure that robust risk data aggregation is possible before allowing a new
      business venture or acquisition to proceed.

36.71 When a supervisor requires a bank to take remedial action, the supervisor should
      set a timetable for completion of the action. Supervisors should have escalation
      procedures in place to require more stringent or accelerated remedial action in
      the event that a bank does not adequately address the deficiencies identified, or
      in the case that supervisors deem further action is warranted.




Principle 14 – home/host cooperation
36.72 Effective cooperation and appropriate information sharing between the home
      and host supervisory authorities should contribute to the robustness of a bank’s
      risk management practices across a bank’s operations in multiple jurisdictions.
      Wherever possible, supervisors should avoid performing redundant and
      uncoordinated reviews related to risk data aggregation and risk reporting.

36.73 Cooperation can take the form of sharing of information within the constraints of
      applicable laws, as well as discussion between supervisors on a bilateral or
      multilateral basis (eg through colleges of supervisors), including, but not limited
      to, regular meetings. Communication by conference call and email may be
      particularly useful in tracking required remedial actions. Cooperation through
      colleges should be in line with the Basel Committee’s Principles for effective
      supervisory colleges.


36.74 Supervisors should discuss their experiences regarding the quality of risk data
      aggregation capabilities and risk reporting practices in different parts of the
      group. This should include any impediments to risk data aggregation and risk
      reporting arising from cross-border issues and also whether risk data is
      distributed appropriately across the group. Such exchanges will enable
      supervisors to identify significant concerns at an early stage and to respond
      promptly and effectively.




                                 SRP50
                                 Liquidity monitoring metrics
                                 This chapter liquidity monitoring metrics to aid
                                 supervisors in assessing liquidity risk. The tools
                                 cover contractual maturity mismatch, funding
                                 concentration, available unencumbered assets,
                                 LCR by currency, market-related monitoring
                                 tools and intraday metrics.


                                 
Introduction
50.1   In addition to the Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR) and Net Stable Funding Ratio
       (NSFR) standards, the minimum quantitative standards that banks must comply
       with, the Committee has developed a set of liquidity risk monitoring tools to
       measure other dimensions of a bank’s liquidity and funding risk profile. These
       tools promote global consistency in supervising ongoing liquidity and funding
       risk exposures of banks, and in communicating these exposures to home and
       host supervisors. These metrics capture specific information related to a bank’s
       cash flows, balance sheet structure, available unencumbered collateral and certain
       market indicators.

50.2   These metrics, together with the LCR and NSFR standard, provide the cornerstone
       of information that aid supervisors in assessing the liquidity risk of a bank. In
       addition, supervisors may need to supplement this framework by using additional
       tools and metrics tailored to help capture elements of liquidity risk specific to
       their jurisdictions. In utilising these metrics, supervisors should take action when
       potential liquidity difficulties are signalled through a negative trend in the
       metrics, or when a deteriorating liquidity position is identified, or when the
       absolute result of the metric identifies a current or potential liquidity problem.
       Examples of actions that supervisors can take are outlined in the Committee’s
       Sound Principles (paragraphs 141-143).
 The Basel Committee’s “Principles for Sound Liquidity Risk
                   Management and Supervision” also contain more general guidance for
                   banks and supervisors on liquidity risk management 

50.3   Consistent with their broader liquidity risk management responsibilities, bank
       management will be responsible for collating and submitting the monitoring data
       for the tools to their banking supervisor. It is recognised that banks may need to
       liaise closely with counterparts, including payment system operators and
       correspondent banks, to collate the data. However, banks and supervisors are not
       required to disclose these reporting requirements publicly. Public disclosure is
       not intended to be part of these monitoring tools.



As agreed by national authorities in a particular jurisdiction, the
                   monitoring data may be collected by a relevant domestic oversight
                   authority (eg payments system overseer) instead of the banking
                   supervisor.


50.4   The tools in this chapter are for monitoring purposes only. Internationally active
       banks must apply these tools. These tools may also be useful in promoting sound
       liquidity management practices for other banks, whether they are direct
       participants of a large-value payment system (LVPS) or use a correspondent
       bank to settle payments. National supervisors will determine the extent to which
       the tools apply to non-internationally active banks within their jurisdictions.


 “Direct participant” means a participant in a large-value payment
                   system that can settle transactions without using an intermediary. If
                   not a direct participant, a participant will need to use the services of a
                   direct participant (a correspondent bank) to perform particular
                   settlements on its behalf. Banks can be a direct participant in a large-
                   value payment system while using a correspondent bank to settle
                   particular payments, for example, payments for an ancillary system.
                   Not all tools will be relevant to all reporting banks as liquidity profiles
                   will differ between banks (eg whether they access payment and
                   settlement systems directly or indirectly or whether they provide
                   correspondent banking services and intraday credit facilities to other
                   banks).

 An LVPS is a funds transfer system that typically handles large-value
                   and high-priority payments. In contrast to retail payment systems,
                   many LVPSs are operated by central banks, using a real-time gross
                   settlement (RTGS) system or equivalent mechanism. See Section 1.10 of
                   CPSS/IOSCO Principles for financial market infrastructures, April 2012.

 Throughout this document, all references to banks subject to the
                   monitoring tools (in some instances the term reporting bank is used for
                   the sake of clarity) should be interpreted in accordance with the scope
                   of application set forth in this paragraph.




50.5




       The intraday monitoring tools should be reported monthly, alongside the LCR
       reporting requirements (see LCR20.7). Banks should agree with their supervisors
       the scope of application and reporting arrangements between home and host
       authorities.
   In some cases, it will also require co-operation between home and host
                   authorities.



Contractual maturity mismatch
50.6   The contractual maturity mismatch profile identifies the gaps between the
       contractual inflows and outflows of liquidity for defined time bands. These
       maturity gaps indicate how much liquidity a bank would potentially need to raise
       in each of these time bands if all outflows occurred at the earliest possible date.
       This metric provides insight into the extent to which the bank relies on maturity
       transformation under its current contracts. The metric is defined as contractual
       cash and security inflows and outflows from all on- and off-balance sheet items,
       mapped to defined time banks based on their respective maturities.

50.7   A bank should report contractual cash and security flows in the relevant time
       bands based on their residual contractual maturity. Supervisors in each
       jurisdiction will determine the specific template, including required time bands,
       by which data must be reported. Supervisors should define the time buckets so
       as to be able to understand the bank’s cash flow position. Possibilities include
       requesting the cash flow mismatch to be constructed for the overnight, 7 day, 14
       day, 1, 2, 3, 6 and 9 months, 1, 2, 3, 5 and beyond 5 years buckets. Instruments
       that have no specific maturity (non-defined or open maturity) should be reported
       separately, with details on the instruments, and with no assumptions applied as
       to when maturity occurs. Information on possible cash flows arising from
       derivatives such as interest rate swaps and options should also be included to the
       extent that their contractual maturities are relevant to the understanding of the
       cash flows.



50.8   At a minimum, the data collected from the contractual maturity mismatch should
       provide data on the categories outlined in the LCR. Some additional accounting
       (non-dated) information such as capital or non-performing loans may need to be
       reported separately.

50.9   The following assumptions should be made with regard to contractual cash flows.

       (1) No rollover of existing liabilities is assumed to take place. For assets, the
           bank is assumed not to enter into any new contracts.

       (2) Contingent liability exposures that would require a change in the state of the
           world (such as contracts with triggers based on a change in prices of
           financial instruments or a downgrade in the bank's credit rating) need to be
           detailed, grouped by what would trigger the liability, with the respective
           exposures clearly identified.

       (3) A bank should record all securities flows. This will allow supervisors to
           monitor securities movements that mirror corresponding cash flows as well
           as the contractual maturity of collateral swaps and any uncollateralised stock
           lending/borrowing where stock movements occur without any
           corresponding cash flows.

       (4) A bank should report separately the customer collateral received that the
           bank is permitted to rehypothecate as well as the amount of such collateral
           that is rehypothecated at each reporting date. This also will highlight
           instances when the bank is generating mismatches in the borrowing and
           lending of customer collateral.

50.10 Banks will provide the raw data to the supervisors, with no assumptions included
      in the data. Standardised contractual data submission by banks enables
      supervisors to build a market-wide view and identify market outliers vis-à-vis
      liquidity.

50.11 Given that the metric is based solely on contractual maturities with no
      behavioural assumptions, the data will not reflect actual future forecasted flows
      under the current, or future, strategy or plans, ie, under a going-concern view.
      Also, contractual maturity mismatches do not capture outflows that a bank may
      make in order to protect its franchise, even where contractually there is no
      obligation to do so. For analysis, supervisors can apply their own assumptions to
      reflect alternative behavioural responses in reviewing maturity gaps.


50.12 As outlined in the Sound Principles, banks should also conduct their own maturity
      mismatch analyses, based on going-concern behavioural assumptions of the
      inflows and outflows of funds in both normal situations and under stress. These
      analyses should be based on strategic and business plans and should be shared
      and discussed with supervisors, and the data provided in the contractual maturity

       mismatch should be utilised as a basis of comparison. When firms are
       contemplating material changes to their business models, it is crucial for
       supervisors to request projected mismatch reports as part of an assessment of
       impact of such changes to prudential supervision. Examples of such changes
       include potential major acquisitions or mergers or the launch of new products
       that have not yet been contractually entered into. In assessing such data
       supervisors need to be mindful of assumptions underpinning the projected
       mismatches and whether they are prudent.

50.13 A bank should be able to indicate how it plans to bridge any identified gaps in its
      internally generated maturity mismatches and explain why the assumptions
      applied differ from the contractual terms. The supervisor should challenge these
      explanations and assess the feasibility of the bank’s funding plans.


Concentration of funding
50.14 This metric is meant to identify those sources of wholesale funding that are of
      such significance that withdrawal of this funding could trigger liquidity problems.
      The metric thus encourages the diversification of funding sources recommended
      in the Committee’s Sound Principles. It is defined as follows:

       (1) Funding liabilities sourced from each significant counterparty as a % of total
           liabilities

       (2) Funding liabilities sourced from each significant production / instrument as a
           % of total liabilities

       (3) List of asset and liability amounts by significant currency

50.15 The numerator for SRP50.14(1) and SRP50.14(2) is determined by examining
      funding concentrations by counterparty or type of instrument/product. Banks and
      supervisors should monitor both the absolute percentage of the funding
      exposure, as well as significant increases in concentrations.

50.16 The numerator for counterparties is calculated by aggregating the total of all
      types of liabilities to a single counterparty or group of connected or affiliated
      counterparties, as well as all other direct borrowings, both secured and
      unsecured, which the bank can determine arise from the same counterparty
      (such as for overnight commercial paper / certificate of deposit (CP/CD) funding).



  For some funding sources, such as debt issues that are transferable
                   across counterparties (such as CP/CD funding dated longer than
                   overnight, etc), it is not always possible to identify the counterparty
                   holding the debt.


50.17 A “significant counterparty” is defined as a single counterparty or group of
      connected or affiliated counterparties accounting in aggregate for more than 1%
      of the bank's total balance sheet, although in some cases there may be other
      defining characteristics based on the funding profile of the bank. A group of
      connected counterparties is, in this context, defined in the same way as in the
      “Large Exposure” regulation of the host country in the case of consolidated
      reporting for solvency purposes. Intra-group deposits and deposits from related
      parties should be identified specifically under this metric, regardless of whether
      the metric is being calculated at a legal entity or group level, due to the potential
      limitations to intra-group transactions in stressed conditions.

50.18 The numerator for type of instrument/product should be calculated for each
      individually significant funding instrument/product, as well as by calculating
      groups of similar types of instruments/products.

50.19 A “significant instrument/product” is defined as a single instrument/product or
      group of similar instruments/products that in aggregate amount to more than
      1% of the bank's total balance sheet.

50.20 In order to capture the amount of structural currency mismatch in a bank’s assets
      and liabilities, banks are required to provide a list of the amount of assets and
      liabilities in each significant currency.

50.21 A currency is considered “significant” if the aggregate liabilities denominated in
      that currency amount to 5% or more of the bank's total liabilities.

50.22 The above metrics should be reported separately for the time horizons of less
      than one month, 1-3 months, 3-6 months, 6-12 months, and for longer than 12
      months.



50.23 In utilising this metric to determine the extent of funding concentration to a
      certain counterparty, both the bank and supervisors must recognise that currently
      it is not possible to identify the actual funding counterparty for many types of
      debt. The actual concentration of funding sources, therefore, could likely be
      higher than this metric indicates. The list of significant counterparties could
      change frequently, particularly during a crisis. Supervisors should consider the
      potential for herding behaviour on the part of funding counterparties in the case
      of an institution-specific problem. In addition, under market-wide stress, multiple
       funding counterparties and the bank itself may experience concurrent liquidity
       pressures, making it difficult to sustain funding, even if sources appear well
       diversified.
  For some funding sources, such as debt issues that are transferable
                   across counterparties (such as CP/CD funding dated longer than
                   overnight, etc), it is not always possible to identify the counterparty
                   holding the debt


50.24 In interpreting this metric, one must recognise that the existence of bilateral
      funding transactions may affect the strength of commercial ties and the amount
      of the net outflow.9


       Footnotes
       9           Eg where the monitored institution also extends funding or has large
                   unused credit lines outstanding to the “significant counterparty”.


50.25 These metrics do not indicate how difficult it would be to replace funding from
      any given source.

50.26 To capture potential foreign exchange risks, the comparison of the amount of
      assets and liabilities by currency will provide supervisors with a baseline for
      discussions with the banks about how they manage any currency mismatches
      through swaps, forwards, etc. It is meant to provide a base for further discussions
      with the bank rather than to provide a snapshot view of the potential risk.




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                               1174/1626
Available unencumbered assets
50.27 These metrics provide supervisors with data on the quantity and key
      characteristics, including currency denomination and location, of banks’ available
      unencumbered assets. These assets have the potential to be used as collateral to
      raise additional high-quality liquid assets (HQLA) or secured funding in secondary
      markets or are eligible at central banks and as such may potentially be additional
      sources of liquidity for the bank. The metrics are defined as:

       (1) available unencumbered assets that are marketable as collateral in secondary
           markets; and

       (2) available unencumbered assets that are eligible for central banks’ standing
           facilities.

50.28 A bank is to report the amount, type and location of available unencumbered
      assets that could serve as collateral for secured borrowing in secondary markets
      at prearranged or current haircuts at reasonable costs.

50.29 Likewise, a bank should report the amount, type and location of available
      unencumbered assets that are eligible for secured financing with relevant central
      banks at prearranged (if available) or current haircuts at reasonable costs, for
      standing facilities only (ie excluding emergency assistance arrangements). This
      would include collateral that has already been accepted at the central bank but
      remains unused. For assets to be counted in this metric, the bank must have
      already put in place the operational procedures that would be needed to
      monetise the collateral.

50.30 A bank should report separately the customer collateral received that the bank is
      permitted to deliver or re-pledge, as well as the part of such collateral that it is
      delivering or re-pledging at each reporting date.

50.31 In addition to providing the total amounts available, a bank should report these
      items categorised by significant currency. A currency is considered “significant” if
      the aggregate stock of available unencumbered collateral denominated in that
      currency amounts 5% or more of the associated total amount of available
      unencumbered collateral (for secondary markets or central banks).

50.32 In addition, a bank must report the estimated haircut that the secondary market
      or relevant central bank would require for each asset. In the case of the latter, a
      bank would be expected to reference, under business as usual, the haircut
      required by the central bank that it would normally access (which likely involves
      matching funding currency – eg European Central Bank for euro-denominated
      funding, Bank of Japan for yen funding, etc).


50.33 As a second step after reporting the relevant haircuts, a bank should report the
      expected monetised value of the collateral (rather than the notional amount) and
      where the assets are actually held, in terms of the location of the assets and what
      business lines have access to those assets.

50.34 These metrics are useful for examining the potential for a bank to generate an
      additional source of HQLA or secured funding. They will provide a standardised
      measure of the extent to which the LCR can be quickly replenished after a
      liquidity shock either via raising funds in private markets or utilising central bank
      standing facilities. The metrics do not, however, capture potential changes in
      counterparties’ haircuts and lending policies that could occur under either a
      systemic or idiosyncratic event and could provide false comfort that the
      estimated monetised value of available unencumbered collateral is greater than it
      would be when it is most needed. Supervisors should keep in mind that these
      metrics do not compare available unencumbered assets to the amount of
      outstanding secured funding or any other balance sheet scaling factor. To gain a
      more complete picture, the information generated by these metrics should be
      complemented with the maturity mismatch metric and other balance sheet data.


LCR by significant currency
50.35 While the LCR is required to be met in one single currency, in order to better
      capture potential currency mismatches, banks and supervisors should also
      monitor the LCR in significant currencies. This will allow the bank and the
      supervisor to track potential currency mismatch issues that could arise. This
      metric is defined as follows.
   Amount of total net foreign exchange cash outflows should be net of
                   foreign exchange hedges.


50.36 The definition of the stock of high-quality foreign exchange assets and total net
      foreign exchange cash outflows should mirror those of the LCR for common
      currencies.
Cash flows from assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet items will be
                   computed in the currency that the counterparties are obliged to deliver
                   to settle the contract, independent of the currency to which the
                   contract is indexed (or "linked"), or the currency whose fluctuation it is
                   intended to hedge.


50.37 A currency is considered “significant” if the aggregate liabilities denominated in
      that currency amount to 5% or more of the bank's total liabilities.

50.38 As the foreign currency LCR is not a minimum requirement but a monitoring tool,
      it does not have an internationally defined minimum required threshold.
      Nonetheless, supervisors in each jurisdiction could set minimum monitoring
      ratios for the foreign exchange LCR, below which a supervisor should be alerted.
      In this case, the ratio at which supervisors should be alerted would depend on the
      stress assumption. Supervisors should evaluate banks’ ability to raise funds in
      foreign currency markets and the ability to transfer a liquidity surplus from one
      currency to another and across jurisdictions and legal entities. Therefore, the ratio
      should be higher for currencies in which the supervisors evaluate a bank’s ability
      to raise funds in foreign currency markets or the ability to transfer a liquidity
      surplus from one currency to another and across jurisdictions and legal entities to
      be limited.

50.39 This metric is meant to allow the bank and supervisor to track potential currency
      mismatch issues that could arise in a time of stress.


Market-related monitoring tools
50.40 High-frequency market data with little or no time lag can be used as early
      warning indicators in monitoring potential liquidity difficulties at banks.

50.41 While there are many types of data available in the market, supervisors can
      monitor data at the following levels to focus on potential liquidity difficulties:

       (1) market-wide information;

       (2) information on the financial sector; and

       (3) bank-specific information.

50.42 Supervisors can monitor information both on the absolute level and direction of
      major markets and consider their potential impact on the financial sector and the
      specific bank. Market-wide information is also crucial when evaluating
      assumptions behind a bank’s funding plan.




50.43 Valuable market information to monitor includes, but is not limited to, equity
      prices (ie overall stock markets and sub-indices in various jurisdictions relevant to
      the activities of the supervised banks), debt markets (money markets, medium-
      term notes, long term debt, derivatives, government bond markets, credit default
      spread indices, etc); foreign exchange markets, commodities markets, and indices
      related to specific products, such as for certain securitised products (eg the ABX
      asset-backed securities index).

50.44 To track whether the financial sector as a whole is mirroring broader market
      movements or is experiencing difficulties, information to be monitored includes
      equity and debt market information for the financial sector broadly and for
      specific subsets of the financial sector, including indices.

50.45 To monitor whether the market is losing confidence in a particular institution or
      has identified risks at an institution, it is useful to collect information on equity
      prices, credit default swap (CDS) spreads, money-market trading prices, the
      situation of roll-overs and prices for various lengths of funding, the price/yield of
      bank debenture or subordinated debt in the secondary market.

50.46 Information such as equity prices and credit spreads are readily available.
      However, the accurate interpretation of such information is important. For
      instance, the same CDS spread in numerical terms may not necessarily imply the
      same risk across markets due to market-specific conditions such as low market
      liquidity. Also, when considering the liquidity impact of changes in certain data
      points, the reaction of other market participants to such information can be
      different, as various liquidity providers may emphasise different types of data.


Monitoring tools for intraday liquidity management
50.47 A bank’s failure to effectively manage intraday liquidity could leave it unable to
      meet its payment and settlement obligations on a timely basis, which could lead
      to liquidity dislocations that cascade quickly across many systems and
      institutions. As such, the bank’s management of intraday liquidity risk should be
      considered as a crucial part of liquidity risk management. It should also actively
      manage its collateral positions and have the ability to calculate all of its collateral
      positions.

50.48 For the purpose of this chapter, the following definitions will apply to the terms
      stated below.

       (1) intraday liquidity: funds which can be accessed during the business day,
           usually to enable banks to make payments in real time;


       (2) business day: the opening hours of the LVPS or of correspondent banking
           services during which a bank can receive and make payments in a local
           jurisdiction;

       (3) intraday liquidity risk: the risk that a bank fails to manage its intraday
           liquidity effectively, which could leave it unable to meet a payment
           obligation at the time expected, thereby affecting its own liquidity position
           and that of other parties; and

       (4) time-specific obligations: obligations which must be settled at a specific time
           within the day or have an expected intraday settlement deadline.


See the Committee on Payments and Market Infrastructures’ glossary
                   of payments and market infrastructure terminology as a reference to
                   the standard terms and definitions used in connection with payment,
                   clearing, settlement and related arrangements 



Intraday liquidity sources and usage

50.49 The following sets out the main constituent elements of a bank’s intraday
      liquidity sources and usage. The list should not be taken as exhaustive.


     (1) Sources

         (a) Own sources

               (i)    Reserve balances at the central bank;

               (ii)   Collateral pledged with the central bank or with ancillary systems
                      that can be freely converted into intraday liquidity;

               (iii) Unencumbered assets on a bank’s balance sheet that can be freely
                     converted into intraday liquidity;

               (iv) Secured and unsecured, committed and uncommitted credit lines
                    available intraday;

               (v)    Balances with other banks that can be used for intraday settlement.

         (b) Other sources

               (i)    Payments received from other LVPS participants;

               (ii)   Payments received from ancillary systems;

               (iii) Payments received through correspondent banking services.

     (2) Usage

         (a) Payments made to other LVPS participants;

         (b) Payments made to ancillary systems;

         (c)   Payments made through correspondent banking services;

         (d) Secured and unsecured, committed and uncommitted credit lines
             offered intraday;

         (e) Contingent payments relating to a payment and settlement system’s
             failure (eg as an emergency liquidity provider).




  Not all elements will be relevant to all reporting banks as intraday
                   liquidity profiles will differ between banks (eg whether they access
                   payment and settlement systems directly or indirectly or whether they
                   provide correspondent banking services and intraday credit facilities to
                   other banks etc.)

Ancillary systems include other payment systems such as retail
                   payment systems, CLS, securities settlement systems and central
                   counterparties.

Although uncommitted credit lines can be withdrawn in times of stress
                   (see stress scenario (i) in SRP50.82), such lines are an available source
                   of intraday liquidity in normal times.

Some securities settlement systems offer self-collateralisation facilities
                   in co-operation with the central bank. Through these, participants can
                   automatically post incoming securities from the settlement process as
                   collateral at the central bank to obtain liquidity to fund their securities
                   settlement systems’ obligations. In these cases, intraday liquidity usage
                   are only those related to the haircut applied by the central bank.


50.50 In correspondent banking, some customer payments are made across accounts
      held by the same correspondent bank. These payments do not give rise to an
      intraday liquidity source or usage for the correspondent bank as they do not link
      to the payment and settlement systems. However, these “internalised payments”
      do have intraday liquidity implications for both the sending and receiving
      customer banks and should be incorporated in their reporting of the monitoring
      tools.


Summary of the intraday liquidity monitoring tools

50.51 A number of factors influence a bank’s usage of intraday liquidity in payment and
      settlement systems and its vulnerability to intraday liquidity shocks. As such, no
      single monitoring tool can provide supervisors with sufficient information to
      identify and monitor the intraday liquidity risk run by a bank. To achieve this,
      seven separate monitoring tools have been developed (see Table 1). As not all of
      the tools will be relevant to all reporting banks, the tools have been classified in
      three groups to determine their applicability as follows:

       (1) Category A: applicable to all reporting banks;

       (2) Category B: applicable to reporting banks that provide correspondent
           banking services; and

       (3) Category C: applicable to reporting banks which are direct participants.

            The set of monitoring tools                                                  Table 1


            Tools applicable to all reporting banks

            A(i)     Daily maximum intraday liquidity usage

            A(ii)    Available intraday liquidity at the start of the business day

            A(iii)   Total payments

            A(iv)    Time-specific obligations

            Tools applicable to reporting banks that provide correspondent banking services

            B(i)     Value of payments made on behalf of correspondent banking customers

            B(ii)    Intraday credit lines extended to customers

            Tool applicable to reporting banks which are direct participants

            C(i)     Intraday throughput




Scope of application of the intraday liquidity monitoring tools

50.52 Banks generally manage their intraday liquidity risk on a system-by-system basis
      in a single currency, but it is recognised that practices differ across banks and
      jurisdictions, depending on the institutional set up of a bank and the specifics of
      the systems in which it operates. The following considerations aim to help banks
      and supervisors determine the most appropriate way to apply the tools. Should
      banks need further clarification, they should discuss the scope of application with
      their supervisors.



50.53 Banks which are direct participants to an LVPS can manage their intraday liquidity
      in very different ways. Some banks manage their payment and settlement activity
      on a system-by-system basis. Others make use of direct intraday liquidity
      “bridges” between LVPS, which allow excess liquidity to be transferred from one



       system to another without restriction. Other formal arrangements exist, which
       allow funds to be transferred from one system to another (such as agreements
       for foreign currency liquidity to be used as collateral for domestic systems).


A direct intraday liquidity bridge is a technical functionality built into
                   two or more LVPS that allows banks to make transfers directly from
                   one system to the other intraday.


50.54 To allow for these different approaches, direct participants should apply a
      ‘bottom-up’ approach to determine the appropriate basis for reporting the
      monitoring tools. The following sets out the principles which such banks should
      follow:

       (1) As a baseline, individual banks should report on each LVPS in which they
           participate on a system-by-system-basis;

       (2) If there is a direct real-time technical liquidity bridge between two or more
           LVPS, the intraday liquidity in those systems may be considered fungible. At
           least one of the linked LVPS may therefore be considered an ancillary system
           for the purpose of the tools;

       (3) If a bank can demonstrate to the satisfaction of its supervisor that it regularly
           monitors positions and uses other formal arrangements to transfer liquidity
           intraday between LVPS which do not have a direct technical liquidity bridge,
           those LVPS may also be considered as ancillary systems for reporting
           purposes.

50.55 Ancillary systems (eg retail payment systems, CLS, some securities settlement
      systems and central counterparties), place demands on a bank’s intraday liquidity
      when these systems settle the bank’s obligations in an LVPS. Consequently,
      separate reporting requirements will not be necessary for such ancillary systems.

50.56 Banks that use correspondent banking services should base their reports on the
      payment and settlement activity over their account(s) with their correspondent
      bank(s). Where more than one correspondent bank is used, the bank should
      report per correspondent bank. For banks which access an LVPS indirectly

       through more than one correspondent bank, the reporting may be aggregated,
       provided that the reporting bank can demonstrate to the satisfaction of its
       supervisor that it is able to move liquidity between its correspondent banks.

50.57 Banks which operate as direct participants of an LVPS but which also make use of
      correspondent banks should discuss whether they can aggregate these for
      reporting purposes with their supervisor. Aggregation may be appropriate if the
      payments made directly through the LVPS and those made through the
      correspondent bank(s) are in the same jurisdiction and same currency.

50.58 Banks that manage their intraday liquidity on a currency-by-currency basis should
      report on an individual currency basis.

50.59 If a bank can prove to the satisfaction of its supervisor that it manages liquidity
      on a cross-currency basis and has the ability to transfer funds intraday with
      minimal delay – including in periods of acute stress – then the intraday liquidity
      positions across currencies may be aggregated for reporting purposes. However,
      banks should also report at an individual currency level so that supervisors can
      monitor the extent to which firms are reliant on foreign exchange swap markets.

50.60 When the level of activity of a bank’s payment and settlement activity in any one
      particular currency is considered de minimis, with the agreement of the
      supervisor, a reporting exemption could apply and separate returns need not
      be submitted.


 As an indicative threshold, supervisors may consider that a currency is
                   considered “significant” if the aggregate liabilities denominated in that
                   currency amount to 5% or more of the bank's total liabilities. See
                   SRP50.37.


50.61 The appropriate organisational level for each bank’s reporting of its intraday
      liquidity data should be determined by the supervisor, but it is expected that the
      monitoring tools will typically be applied at a significant individual legal entity
      level. The decision on the appropriate entity should consider any potential
      impediments to moving intraday liquidity between entities within a group,
      including the ability of supervisory jurisdictions to ring-fence liquid assets, timing
      differences and any logistical constraints on the movement of collateral.


50.62 Where there are no impediments or constraints to transferring intraday liquidity
      between two (or more) legal entities intraday, and banks can demonstrate this to
      the satisfaction of their supervisor, the intraday liquidity requirements of the
      entities may be aggregated for reporting purposes.

50.63 For cross-border banking groups, where a bank operates in LVPS and/or with a
      correspondent bank(s) outside the jurisdiction where it is domiciled, both home
      and host supervisors will have an interest in ensuring that the bank has sufficient
      intraday liquidity to meet its obligations in the local LVPS and/or with its
      correspondent bank(s). The allocation of responsibility between home and host
      supervisor will ultimately depend upon whether the bank operating in the non-
      domestic jurisdiction does so via a branch or a subsidiary.

       (1) For a branch operation:

           (a) The home (consolidated) supervisor should have responsibility for
               monitoring through the collection and examination of data that its
               banking groups can meet their payment and settlement responsibilities
               in all countries and all currencies in which they operate. The home
               supervisor should therefore have the option to receive a full set of
               intraday liquidity information for its banking groups, covering both
               domestic and non-domestic payment and settlement obligations.

           (b) The host supervisor should have the option to require foreign branches
               in their jurisdiction to report intraday liquidity tools to them, subject to
               materiality.

       (2) For a subsidiary active in a non-domestic LVPS and/or correspondent bank(s):

           (a) The host supervisor should have primary responsible for receiving the
               relevant set of intraday liquidity data for that subsidiary.

           (b) The supervisor of the parent bank (the home consolidated supervisor)
               will have an interest in ensuring that a non-domestic subsidiary has
               sufficient intraday liquidity to participate in all payment and settlement
               obligations. The home supervisor should therefore have the option to
               require non-domestic subsidiaries to report intraday liquidity data to
               them as appropriate.




  Paragraph 145 of the Sound Principles states that “the host supervisor
                   needs to understand how the liquidity profile of the group contributes
                   to risks to the entity in its jurisdiction, while the home supervisor
                   requires information on material risks a foreign branch or subsidiary
                   poses to the banking group as a whole.



Intraday monitoring tools applicable to all reporting banks

Daily maximum intraday liquidity usage

50.64 The daily maximum intraday liquidity usage tool will enable supervisors to
      monitor a bank’s intraday liquidity usage in normal conditions. It will require
      banks to monitor the net balance of all payments made and received during the
      day over their settlement account, either with the central bank (if a direct
      participant) or over their account held with a correspondent bank (or accounts, if
      more than one correspondent bank is used to settle payments). The largest net
      negative position during the business day on the account(s), (ie the largest net
      cumulative balance between payments made and received), will determine a bank’
      s maximum daily intraday liquidity usage. The net position should be determined
      by settlement time stamps (or the equivalent) using transaction-by-transaction
      data over the account(s). The largest net negative balance on the account(s) can
      be calculated after close of the business day and does not require real-time
      monitoring throughout the day.

50.65 For illustrative purposes only, the calculation of the tool is shown in Figure 1. A
      positive net position signifies that the bank has received more payments than it
      has made during the day. Conversely, a negative net position signifies that the
      bank has made more payments than it has received. For direct participants, the
      net position represents the change in its opening balance with the central bank.
      For banks that use one or more correspondent banks, the net position represents
      the change in the opening balance on the account(s) with its correspondent bank
      (s).


  For the calculation of the net cumulative position, “payments received”
                   do not include funds obtained through central bank intraday liquidity
                   facilities.

                     Daily maximum intraday liquidity usage




50.66 Assuming that a bank runs a negative net position at some point intraday, it will
      need access to intraday liquidity to fund this balance. The minimum amount of
      intraday liquidity that a bank would need to have available on any given day
      would be equivalent to its largest negative net position. (In the illustration above,
      the intraday liquidity usage would be 10 units.)

50.67 Conversely, when a bank runs a positive net cumulative position at some point
      intraday, it has surplus liquidity available to meet its intraday liquidity obligations.
      This position may arise because the bank is relying on payments received from
      other LVPS participants to fund its outgoing payments. (In the illustration above,
      the largest positive net cumulative position would be 8.6 units.)

50.68 Banks should report their three largest daily negative net cumulative positions on
      their settlement or correspondent account(s) in the reporting period and the daily
      average of the negative net cumulative position over the period. The largest
      positive net cumulative positions, and the daily average of the positive net
      cumulative positions, should also be reported. As the reporting data accumulates,
      supervisors will gain an indication of the daily intraday liquidity usage of a bank
      in normal conditions.


Available intraday liquidity at the start of the business day


50.69 The available intraday liquidity at the start of the business day tool will enable
      supervisors to monitor the amount of intraday liquidity a bank has available at
      the start of each day to meet its intraday liquidity requirements in normal
      conditions. Banks should report both the three smallest sums by value of intraday
      liquidity available at the start of each business day in the reporting period, and
      the average amount of available intraday liquidity at the start of each business
      day in the reporting period. The report should also break down the constituent
      elements of the liquidity sources available to the bank.

50.70 Drawing on the liquidity sources set out in SRP50.49 and SRP50.50, banks should
      discuss and agree with their supervisor the sources of liquidity which they should
      include in the calculation of this tool. Where banks manage collateral on a cross-
      currency and/or cross-system basis, liquidity sources not denominated in the
      currency of the intraday liquidity usage and/or which are located in a different
      jurisdiction, may be included in the calculation if the bank can demonstrate to the
      satisfaction of its supervisor that the collateral can be transferred intraday freely
      to the system where it is needed.

50.71 As the reporting data accumulates, supervisors will gain an indication of the
      amount of intraday liquidity available to a bank to meet its payment and
      settlement obligations in normal conditions.


Total payments

50.72 The total payments tool will enable supervisors to monitor the overall scale of a
      bank’s payment activity. For each business day in a reporting period, banks
      should calculate the total of their gross payments sent and received in the LVPS
      and/or, where appropriate, across any account(s) held with a correspondent bank
      (s). Banks should report the three largest daily values for gross payments sent and
      received in the reporting period and the average daily figure of gross payments
      made and received in the reporting period.


Time-specific obligations

50.73 The time-specific obligations tool will enable supervisors to gain a better
      understanding of a bank’s time specific obligations. Failure to settle such
      obligations on time could result in financial penalty, reputational damage to the
      bank or loss of future business.



   These obligations include, for example, those for which there is a time-
                   specific intraday deadline, those required to settle positions in other
                   payment and settlement systems, those related to market activities
                   (such as the delivery or return of money market transactions or margin
                   payments), and other payments critical to a bank’s business or
                   reputation (see footnote 10 of the Sound Principles). Examples include
                   the settlement of obligations in ancillary systems, CLS pay-ins or the
                   return of overnight loans. Payments made to meet the throughput
                   guidelines are not considered time-specific obligations for the purpose
                   of this tool.


50.74 Banks should calculate the total value of time-specific obligations that they settle
      each day and report the three largest daily total values and the average daily
      total value in the reporting period to give supervisors an indication of the scale of
      these obligations.

50.75 A sample reporting template for banks that use correspondent banks (but do not
      provide correspondent banking services nor are direct participants), and so report
      only these monitoring tools, is provided in Table 2.


     Sample reporting form for banks that use correspondent banks              Table 2


                  Reporting month

         Name of the correspondent bank

     A(i) Daily maximum intraday liquidity usage        Max       2d max   3d max   Average
    

     Largest positive net cumulative position

     Largest negative net cumulative position

     A(ii) Available intraday liquidity at the
     start of the business day                    Min       2d min   3d min   Average

     Total

     of which:

         Balance with the correspondent bank

         Total credit lines available from the
         correspondent bank

         of which:

              Secured

              Committed

         Collateral pledged at the
         correspondent bank

         Collateral pledged at the central bank

         Unencumbered liquid assets on a
         bank’s balance sheet

         Central bank reserves

         Balances with other banks

         Other

     A(iii) Total payments                        Max       2d max   3d max   Average

     Gross payments sent

     Gross payments received


        A(iv) Time-specific obligations             Max       2d max     3d max     Average

        Total value of time-specific obligations


 Paragraph 145 of the Sound Principles states that “the host supervisor
                    needs to understand how the liquidity profile of the group contributes
                    to risks to the entity in its jurisdiction, while the home supervisor
                    requires information on material risks a foreign branch or subsidiary
                    poses to the banking group as a whole.



Additional intraday monitoring tools applicable to reporting banks
that provide correspondent banking services

Value of payments made on behalf of correspondent banking customers

50.76 The value of payments made on behalf of correspondent banking customers
      tool will enable supervisors to gain a better understanding of the proportion of a
      correspondent bank’s payment flows that arise from its provision of
      correspondent banking services. These flows may have a significant impact on
      the correspondent bank’s own intraday liquidity management.

The term ”customers” includes all entities for which the correspondent
                    bank provides correspondent banking services.

Paragraph 79 of the Sound Principles states that: “[T]he level of a bank’
                    s gross cash inflows and outflows may be uncertain, in part because
                    those flows may reflect the activities of its customers, especially where
                    the bank provides correspondent or custodian services.”


50.77 Correspondent banks should calculate the total value of payments they make on
      behalf of all customers of their correspondent banking services each day and
      report the three largest daily total values and the daily average total value of
      these payments in the reporting period.


Intraday credit lines extended to customers

50.78 The intraday credit lines extended to customers tool will enable supervisors to
      monitor the scale of a correspondent bank’s provision of intraday credit to its
      customers. Correspondent banks should report the three largest intraday credit
      lines extended to their customers in the reporting period, including whether
      these lines are secured or committed and the use of those lines at peak usage.


 Not all elements will be relevant to all reporting banks as intraday
                   liquidity profiles will differ between banks (eg whether they access
                   payment and settlement systems directly or indirectly or whether they
                   provide correspondent banking services and intraday credit facilities to
                   other banks)

    The figure to be reported for the three largest intraday credit lines
                   extended to customers should include uncommitted and unsecured
                   lines. This disclosure does not change the legal nature of these credit
                   lines.


50.79 A sample reporting template for banks that relates to their provision of
      correspondent banking services is provided in Table 3.


       Sample reporting form for banks that provide correspondent banking
       services                                                                       Table 3


                     Reporting month

       B(i) Value of payments made on behalf of correspondent banking customers       Max        2d max        3d max   Average
       

       Total gross value of payments made on
       behalf of correspondent banking
       customers

       B(ii) Intraday credit lines extended to customers    
                                      Max        2d max        3d max

       Total value of credit lines extended to
       customers

       of which:

           Secured

           Committed


           Used at peak usage



 This figure includes all credit lines extended, including uncommitted
                   and unsecured.



Additional intraday monitoring tool applicable to reporting banks
which are direct participants

Intraday throughput

50.80 The intraday throughput tool will enable supervisors to monitor the throughput
      of a direct participant’s daily payments activity across its settlement account.
      Direct participants should report the daily average in the reporting period of the
      percentage of their outgoing payments (relative to total payments) that settle by
      specific times during the day, by value within each hour of the business day.
      Over time, this will enable supervisors to identify any changes in a bank’s
      payment and settlement behaviour.


It should be noted that some jurisdictions already have throughput
                   rules or guidelines in place.


50.81 A sample reporting template for banks that are direct participants (and which do
      not use nor provide correspondent banking services) is provided in Table 4.



     Sample reporting form for direct participants                            Table 4


                  Reporting month

      Name of the large value payment system

     A(i) Daily maximum intraday liquidity usage           Max   2d max   3d max   Average
    

     Largest positive net cumulative position

     Largest negative net cumulative position

     A(ii) Available intraday liquidity at the
     start of the business day                       Min   2d min   3d min   Average

     Total

     of which:

         Central bank reserves

         Collateral pledged at the central
         bank

         Collateral pledged at ancillary
         systems

         Unencumbered liquid assets on a
         bank’s balance sheet

         Total credit lines available

         of which:

              Secured

              Committed

         Balances with other banks

         Other

     A(iii) Total payments                           Max   2d max   3d max   Average

     Gross payments sent

     Gross payments received

     A(iv) Time-specific obligations                 Max   2d max   3d max   Average



       Total value of time-specific obligations

       C(i) Intraday throughput (%)               Average

       Throughput at 0800

       Throughput at 0900

       Throughput at 1000

       Throughput at 1100

       Throughput at 1200

       Throughput at 1300

       Throughput at 1400

       Throughput at 1500

       Throughput at 1600

       Throughput at 1700

       Throughput at 1800



  This figure includes all available credit lines, including uncommitted
                   and unsecured.



Intraday liquidity stress scenarios
50.82 The monitoring tools in SRP50.64 to SRP50.81 will provide banking supervisors
      with information on a bank’s intraday liquidity profile in normal conditions.
      However, the availability and usage of intraday liquidity can change markedly in
      times of stress. In the course of their discussions on broader liquidity risk
      management, banks and supervisors should also consider the impact of a bank’s
      intraday liquidity requirements in stress conditions. As guidance, four possible
      (but non-exhaustive) stress scenarios have been identified and are described
      below. Banks should determine with their supervisor which of the scenarios (or
      other scenarios) are relevant to their particular circumstances and business
      model.



     (1) Own financial stress: a bank suffers, or is perceived to be suffering from, a
         stress event.

         (a) For a direct participant, own financial and/or operational stress may
             result in counterparties deferring payments and/or withdrawing intraday
             credit lines. This, in turn, may result in the bank having to fund more of
             its payments from its own intraday liquidity sources to avoid having to
             defer its own payments.

         (b) For banks that use correspondent banking services, an own financial
             stress may result in intraday credit lines being withdrawn by the
             correspondent bank(s), and/or its own counterparties deferring
             payments. This may require the bank having either to prefund its
             payments and/or to collateralise its intraday credit line(s).

     (2) Counterparty stress: a major counterparty suffers an intraday stress event
         which prevents it from making payments. A counterparty stress may result in
         direct participants and banks that use correspondent banking services being
         unable to rely on incoming payments from the stressed counterparty,
         reducing the availability of intraday liquidity that can be sourced from the
         receipt of the counterparty’s payments.

     (3) A customer’s bank’s stress: a customer bank of a correspondent bank suffers
         a stress event. A customer bank’s stress may result in other banks deferring
         payments to the customer, creating a further loss of intraday liquidity at its
         correspondent bank.



       (4) Market-wide credit or liquidity stress: this may have adverse implications for
           the value of liquid assets that a bank holds to meet its intraday liquidity
           usage. A widespread fall in the market value and/or credit rating of a bank’s
           unencumbered liquid assets may constrain its ability to raise intraday
           liquidity from the central bank. In a worst case scenario, a material credit
           downgrade of the assets may result in the assets no longer meeting the
           eligibility criteria for the central bank’s intraday liquidity facilities.

            (a) For a bank that uses correspondent banking services, a widespread fall
                in the market value and/or credit rating of its unencumbered liquid
                assets may constrain its ability to raise intraday liquidity from its
                correspondent bank(s).

            (b) Banks which manage intraday liquidity on a cross-currency basis should
                consider the intraday liquidity implications of a closure of, or
                operational difficulties in, currency swap markets and stresses occurring
                in multiple systems simultaneously.

 Banks are encouraged to consider reverse stress scenarios and other
                   stress testing scenarios as appropriate (for example, the impact of
                   natural disasters, currency crisis, etc). In addition, banks should use
                   these stress testing scenarios to inform their intraday liquidity risk
                   tolerance and contingency funding plans.



Application of the stress scenarios

50.83 For the own financial stress and counterparty stress, all reporting banks should
      consider the likely impact that these stress scenarios would have on their daily
      maximum intraday liquidity usage, available intraday liquidity at the start of the
      business day, total payments and time-specific obligations.

50.84 For the customer bank’s stress scenario, banks that provide correspondent
      banking services should consider the likely impact that this stress scenario would
      have on the value of payments made on behalf of its customers and intraday
      credit lines extended to its customers.

50.85 For the market-wide stress, all reporting banks should consider the likely impact
      that the stress would have on their sources of available intraday liquidity at the
      start of the business day.



50.86 Banks need not report the impact of the stress scenarios on the monitoring tools
      to supervisors on a regular basis. They should use the scenarios to assess how
       their intraday liquidity profile in normal conditions would change in conditions of
       stress and discuss with their supervisor how any adverse impact would be
       addressed either through contingency planning arrangements and/or their wider
       intraday liquidity risk management framework.

50.87 While each of the monitoring tools has value in itself, combining the information
      provided by the tools will give supervisors a comprehensive view of a bank’s
      resilience to intraday liquidity shocks. The following is a non-exhaustive set of
      examples which illustrate how the tools could be used in different combinations
      by banking supervisors to assess a bank’s resilience to intraday liquidity risk.

       (1) Time-specific obligations relative to total payments and available intraday
           liquidity at the start of the business day: if a high proportion of a bank’s
           payment activity is time critical, the bank has less flexibility to deal with
           unexpected shocks by managing its payment flows, especially when its
           amount of available intraday liquidity at the start of the business day is
           typically low. In such circumstances the supervisor might expect the bank to
           have adequate risk management arrangements in place or to hold a higher
           proportion of unencumbered assets to mitigate this risk.

       (2) Available intraday liquidity at the start of the business day relative to the
           impact of intraday stresses on the bank’s daily liquidity usage: if the impact
           of an intraday liquidity stress on a bank’s daily liquidity usage is large relative
           to its available intraday liquidity at the start of the business day, it suggests
           that the bank may struggle to settle payments in a timely manner in
           conditions of stress.

       (3) Relationship between daily maximum liquidity usage, available intraday
           liquidity at the start of the business day and the time-specific obligations: if a
           bank misses its time-specific obligations, it could have a significant impact
           on other banks. If it were demonstrated that the bank’s daily liquidity usage
           was high and the lowest amount of available intraday liquidity at the start of
           the business day were close to zero, it might suggest that the bank is
           managing its payment flows with an insufficient pool of liquid assets.

       (4) Total payments and value of payments made on behalf of correspondent
           banking customers: if a large proportion of a bank’s total payment activity is
           made by a correspondent bank on behalf of its customers and, depending
           on the type of the credit lines extended, the correspondent bank could be
           more vulnerable to a stress experienced by a customer. The supervisor may
           wish to understand how this risk is being mitigated by the correspondent
           bank.

       (5) Intraday throughput and daily liquidity usage: if a bank starts to defer its
           payments and this coincides with a reduction in its liquidity usage (as
           measured by its largest positive net cumulative position), the supervisor may
           wish to establish whether the bank has taken a strategic decision to delay
           payments to reduce its usage of intraday liquidity. This behavioural change
           might also be of interest to the overseers given the potential knock-on
           implications to other participants in the LVPS.


Practical example of the intraday monitoring tools
50.88 The following example illustrates how the tools would operate for a bank on a
      particular business day. Assume that on the given day, the bank’s payment profile
      and liquidity usage is as in Table 5:

        Example of bank payment profile                                            Table 5


             Time                  Sent         Received                 Net

             0700            Payment A: 450                             -450

             0758                                  200                  -250

             0855             Payment B: 100                            -350

             1000             Payment C: 200                            -550

             1045                                  400                  -150

             1159                                  300                  +150

             1300            Payment D: 300                             -150

             1345                                  350                  +200

             1500             Payment E: 250                             -50

             1532             Payment F: 100                            -150

             1700                                  150                    0



50.89 As a direct participant, the details of the bank’s payment profile are as follows.
      The bank has 300 units of central bank reserves and 500 units of eligible collateral.

       (1) Payment A: 450

       (2) Payment B: 100 – to settle obligations in an ancillary system

       (3) Payment C: 200 – which has to be settled by 10am

       (4) Payment D: 300 – on behalf of a counterparty using some of a 500 unit
           unsecured credit line that the bank extends to the counterparty

       (5) Payment E: 250

       (6) Payment F: 100

50.90 The intraday monitoring tools are as follows.

       (1) A(i) Daily maximum liquidity usage

           (a) Largest negative net cumulative position: 550 units

           (b) Largest positive net cumulative position: 200 units

       (2) A(ii) available intraday liquidity at the start of the business day: 300 units of
           central bank reserves + 500 units of eligible collateral (routinely transferred
           to the central bank) = 800 units

       (3) A(iii) total payments:

           (a) Gross payments sent: 450 + 100 + 200 + 300 + 250 + 100 = 1400 units

           (b) Gross payments received: 200+ 400 +300 + 350 + 150 = 1400 units

       (4) A(iv) Time-specific obligations: 200 + value of ancillary payment (100) = 300
           units

       (5) B(i) Value of payments made on behalf of correspondent banking customers:
           300 units

       (6) B(ii) Intraday credit line extended to customers:

           (a) Value of intraday credit lines extended: 500 units

           (b) Value of credit line used: 300 units


       (7) C(i) Intraday throughput

            Intraday throughput                                                  Table 6


                                            Cumulative sent            % sent

                        0800                      450                   32.14


                        0900                      550                   39.29

                        1000                      750                   53.57

                        1100                      750                   53.57

                        1200                      750                   53.57

                        1300                     1050                   75.00

                        1400                     1050                   75.00

                        1500                     1300                   92.86

                        1600                     1400                  100.00

                        1700                     1400                  100.00

                        1800                     1400                  100.00



50.91 For a bank that uses a correspondent bank, the details of the bank’s payment
      profile are as follows. The bank has 300 units of account balance at the
      correspondent bank and 500 units of credit lines of which 300 units are
      unsecured and also uncommitted.

       (1) Payment A: 450

       (2) Payment B: 100

       (3) Payment C: 200 – which has to be settled by 10am

       (4) Payment D: 300

       (5) Payment E: 250

       (6) Payment F: 100 – which has to be settled by 4pm

50.92 The intraday monitoring tools are as follows.


     (1) A(i) Daily maximum liquidity usage

         (a) Largest negative net cumulative position: 550 units

         (b) Largest positive net cumulative position: 200 units

     (2) A(ii) available intraday liquidity at the start of the business day: 300 units of
         account balance at the correspondent bank + 500 units of credit lines (of
         which 300 units unsecured and uncommitted) = 800 units

     (3) A(iii) total payments:

         (a) Gross payments sent: 450 + 100 + 200 + 300 + 250 + 100 = 1400 units

         (b) Gross payments received: 200+ 400 +300 + 350 + 150 = 1400 units

     (4) A(iv) Time-specific obligations: 200 + 100 = 300 units




                                 SRP90
                                 Transition
                                 This chapter describes the time allowed for
                                 newly designated systemically important banks
                                 to meet the requirements on risk data
                                 aggregation and risk reporting.


                                 
90.1   Global systemically important banks designated in 2016 or later must meet the
       requirements in this chapter within three years of their designation.

90.2   It is strongly suggested that national supervisors also apply these Principles to
       banks identified as domestic systemically important banks (D-SIBs) by their
       national supervisors three years after their designation as D-SIBs.


                                 SRP98
                                 Application guidance on
                                 interest rate risk in the
                                 banking book
                                 This chapter contains a detailed description of
                                 interest rate risk in the banking book, its
                                 management techniques and the derivation of
                                 the standardised interest rate shocks.



Definition of interest rate risk in the banking book
98.1   Interest rate risk in the banking book (IRRBB) refers to the current or prospective
       risk to a bank’s capital and to its earnings, arising from the impact of adverse
       movements in interest rates on its banking book.

98.2   Excessive IRRBB can pose a significant threat to a bank’s current capital base or
       future earnings if not managed appropriately. Changes in interest rates can affect
       the underlying economic value of the bank’s assets, liabilities and off-balance
       sheet instruments, because the present value of future cash flows (and, in many
       cases, the amounts of cash flows themselves) change when interest rates change.
       Changes in interest rates also affect a bank’s earnings by increasing or decreasing
       its net interest income (NII) and the level of other interest rate-sensitive income
       and operating expenses.

98.3   Fundamentally, there are two distinct methods for valuing banking book items,
       namely:

       (1) “amortised” (or “historical”) cost, where values are based on initial cost less
           accumulated depreciation, taking account of the expected life / maturity of
           the item; and

       (2) “fair” (or “market”) value, where values are based on market prices (where
           available) or on the net present value of expected cash flows, discounted at
           the prevailing rate (where no market price is available).

98.4   For items held at amortised cost, market interest rate changes do not significantly
       impact profit recognition or accounting values for existing instruments
       (significant changes in values would be from impairment that needs to be
       recognised as a permanent diminution in value). Income/cost on items held at
       amortised cost therefore emerges over time in line with maturity-adjusted cash
       flows.

 However, the accounting value may not be the same as the balance
                   that needs to be managed for IRRBB purposes, because of the impact
                   of effective interest rate calculations and the treatment of loan loss
                   provisions.



98.5   Accounting values of fair valued instruments can vary significantly from period to
       period, due to changes to external factors (eg interest rate changes can impact



       both the expected future cash flows and the discount rate used for calculation
       purposes). Income and cost are recognised either through profit and loss (P&L)
       or through equity, on the basis of changes to embedded value.

98.6   Since most IRRBB economic value measures aim to estimate the change in
       economic value under shocks and stresses, the presence or absence of higher
       /lower accounting values for amortised cost instruments is effectively ignored, as
       is the emergence of profit over time. It is therefore important to note that a loss
       in economic value does not automatically equate with accounting losses for this
       element of the banking book. Conversely, for assets held at fair value/mark-to-
       market, changes in interest rates directly affect current accounting values, and
       thus have an immediate impact on both P&L and available capital.

98.7   Every interest rate earned by a bank on its assets, or paid on its liabilities, is a
       composite of a number of price components – some more easily identified than
       others. Theoretically, all rates contain five elements.

       (1) The risk-free rate: this is the fundamental building block for an interest rate,
           representing the theoretical rate of interest an investor would expect from a
           risk-free investment for a given maturity.

       (2) A market duration spread: the prices/valuations of instruments with long
           durations are more vulnerable to market interest rate changes than those
           with short durations. To reflect the uncertainty of both cash flows and the
           prevailing interest rate environment, and consequent price volatility, the
           market requires a premium or spread over the risk-free rate to cover
           duration risk.

       (3) A market liquidity spread: even if the underlying instrument were risk-free,
           the interest rate may contain a premium to represent the market appetite for
           investments and the presence of willing buyers and sellers.

       (4) A general market credit spread: this is distinct from idiosyncratic credit
           spread, and represents the credit risk premium required by market
           participants for a given credit quality (eg the additional yield that a debt
           instrument issued by an AA-rated entity must produce over a risk-free
           alternative).


       (5) Idiosyncratic credit spread: this reflects the specific credit risk associated with
           the credit quality of the individual borrower (which will also reflect



           assessments of risks arising from the sector and geographical/currency
           location of the borrower) and the specifics of the credit instrument (eg
           whether a bond or a derivative).

98.8   In theory these rate components apply across all types of credit exposure, but in
       practice they are more readily identifiable in traded instruments (eg bonds) than
       in pure loans. The latter tend to carry rates based on two components:

       (1) The funding rate, or a reference rate plus a funding margin: the funding rate
           is the blended internal cost of funding the loan, reflected in the internal
           funds transfer price (for larger and more sophisticated banks); the reference
           rate is an externally set benchmark rate, such as the London Interbank
           Offered Rate (LIBOR) or the federal funds rate, to which a bank may need to
           add (or from which it may need to subtract) a funding margin to reflect its
           own all-in funding rate. Both the funding rate and the reference rate
           incorporate liquidity and duration spread, and potentially some elements of
           market credit spread. However, the relationship between the funding rate
           and market reference rate may not be stable over time – this divergence is
           an example of basis risk.

       (2) The credit margin (or commercial margin) applied: this can be a specific add-
           on (eg LIBOR + 3%, where the 3% may include an element of funding
           margin) or built into an administered rate (a rate set by and under the
           absolute control of the bank).

98.9   In practice, decomposing interest rates into their component parts is technically
       demanding and the boundaries between the theoretical components cannot
       easily be calculated (eg changes to market credit perceptions can also change
       market liquidity spreads). As a result, some of the components may be
       aggregated for interest rate risk management purposes.

98.10 Changes to the risk-free rate, market duration spread, reference rate and funding
      margin all fall within the definition of IRRBB. Changes to the market liquidity
      spreads and market credit spreads are combined within the definition of credit
      spread risk in the banking book (CSRBB). The diagram below gives a visual
      representation of how the various elements fit together.


98.11 The main driver of IRRBB is a change in market interest rates, both current and
      expected, as expressed by changes to the shape, slope and level of a range of
      different yield curves that incorporate some or all of the components of interest
      rates.

98.12 When the level or shape of a yield curve for a given interest rate basis changes,
      the relationship between interest rates of different maturities of the same index
      or market, and relative to other yield curves for different instruments, is affected.
      This may result in changes to a bank’s income or underlying economic value.

98.13 CSRBB is driven by changes in market perception about the credit quality of
      groups of different credit-risky instruments, either because of changes to
      expected default levels or because of changes to market liquidity. Changes to
      underlying credit quality perceptions can amplify the risks already arising from
      yield curve risk. CSRBB is therefore defined as any kind of asset/liability spread
      risk of credit-risky instruments which is not explained by IRRBB, nor by the
      expected credit/jump-to-default risk.


98.14 This chapter and SRP31 focus mainly on IRRBB. CSRBB is a related risk that needs
      to be monitored and assessed.

98.15 IRRBB derives from three fundamental aspects relating to the level and structural
      characteristics of interest rates, and the effects on these of changes to yield
      curves. These aspects of interest rate risk can occur simultaneously, and therefore
      need to be managed holistically.

       (1) Gap risk arises from the term structure of banking book instruments, and
           describes the risk arising from the timing of instrument rate changes. Since
           rate resets on different instruments occur at different tenors, the risk to the
           bank arises when the rate of interest paid on liabilities increases before the
           rate of interest received on assets, or reduces on assets before liabilities.
           Unless hedged in terms of tenor and amount, the bank may be exposed to a
           period of reduced or negative interest margins, or may experience changes
           in the relative economic values of assets and liabilities. The extent of gap risk
           depends also on whether changes to the term structure of interest rates
           occur consistently across the yield curve (parallel risk) or differentially by
           period (non-parallel risk).

       (2) Basis risk describes the impact of relative changes in interest rates for
           financial instruments that have similar tenors but are priced using different
           interest rate indices (bases) (eg an asset priced off LIBOR funded by a liability
           priced off US Treasuries). It arises from the imperfect correlation in the
           adjustment of the rates earned and paid on different instruments with
           otherwise similar rate change characteristics. For the purposes of this
           chapter, IRRBB is defined as excluding changes in idiosyncratic credit
           margins.




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                             1211/1626
       (3) Option risk arises from option derivative positions or from the optional
           elements embedded in many bank assets, liabilities and off-balance sheet
           items, where the bank or its customers can alter the level and timing of their
           cash flows. For IRRBB purposes, option risk can be broken down into two
           distinct but related sub-types:

           (a) automatic option risk arising from standalone instruments, such as
               exchange-traded and over-the-counter option contracts, or explicitly
               embedded within the contractual terms of an otherwise standard
               financial instrument (eg a capped rate loan) and where the holder will
               almost certainly exercise the option if it is in their financial interest to do
               so; and

           (b) behavioural option risk arising from flexibility embedded implicitly or
               within the terms of financial contracts, such that changes in interest
               rates may effect a change in the behaviour of the client (eg rights of a

                borrower to prepay a loan, with or without penalty, or the right of a
                depositor to withdraw their balance in search of higher yield).

 This may sometimes be referred to as “yield curve risk”.


98.16 In addition to the pure economic risks that can arise from changes to the level
      and structure of interest rates, risks can arise from:

       (1) currency mismatches, ie where the interest rate risks are in addition to
           normal exchange rate risks (this falls within a wider definition of basis risk); or

       (2) accounting treatment of risk positions, ie where interest rate hedging activity
           may achieve the desired economic effect, but fail to achieve hedge
           accounting treatment.


Measurement of IRRBB
98.17 There are two complementary methods of measuring the potential impact of
      IRRBB:

       (1) changes in expected earnings (earnings-based measures); and

       (2) changes in economic value (EV, or EVE when measuring the change in value
           relative to equity).



98.18 The two methods are complementary in that:

      (1) both measures reflect the impact of changing cash flows arising from
          changing interest rates;

      (2) the change in expected earnings is reflected in the change in economic
          value; and

      (3) they are affected by common assumptions.

98.19 The key differences between the measures include:

      (1) Outcome measure: EV measures compute a change in the net present value
          of the balance sheet under an interest rate stress. In undertaking such a
          calculation, a decision has to be made about whether the outcome should
          be computed as a change in the theoretical economic value of equity (EVE) –
          in which case, equity is either excluded from the EV calculation or included
          with a very short (overnight) duration; or whether the outcome should
          measure the change in economic value other than for assets representing
          equity – in which case, equity is either included with the same duration as
          the assets which it is deemed to be financing, or else both equity and its
          portfolio of financed assets are excluded (this is earnings-adjusted EV). EVE
          and earnings-adjusted EV are therefore specific forms of an EV measure. All
          EV measures can be expressed relative to equity, but EVE includes the
          change to equity value that would result from revaluing under stress its own
          financed portfolio of assets. Earnings-based measures focus on changes to
          future profitability. To the extent that future earnings eventually affect levels
          of future equity, the two measures are aligned, but the value changes
          estimated include adjustments to net income that occur beyond the horizon
          for earnings measures.

      (2) Time horizon: EV measures reflect changes in value relative to equity over
          the remaining life of the balance sheet, ie until all positions have run off.
          Earnings-based measures cover only the short to medium term, and
          therefore do not capture in full those risks that will continue to impact profit
          and loss accounts beyond the period of estimation.

      (3) Future transactions: EV measures usually just focus on changes to cash flows
          of instruments already on the balance sheet. Earnings-based measures can
          be based on balance sheet run-off, or a static balance sheet, but more
          sophisticated or dynamic models tend to consider the impact of new
          business/production that is expected to be written in the future, as well as
          the run-off of existing business.



98.20 For earnings-based measures, the focus for analysis is the impact of changes in
      interest rates on future accrued or reported earnings.

98.21 The component of earnings that has traditionally received the most attention is
      NII, ie the difference between total interest income and total interest expense,
      taking account of hedging activity (eg via derivatives). This focus reflects both the
      importance of NII in banks’ overall earnings and its direct link to changes in
      interest rates.


  Note, however, that, as some banks have expanded increasingly into
                   activities that generate fee-based and other non-interest income, a
                   broader focus on operating earnings/overall net income, incorporating
                   both interest and non-interest income and expenses, has become more
                   common.


98.22 An earnings-based measure offers the possibility of measuring risk under a range
      of different time horizons. The normal focus is on the short/medium-term
      horizon (typically one to three years, no more than five years), to limit the
      cumulative impact of underlying assumptions and the complexity of the
      calculations. As a consequence, an earnings-based measure is better suited to
      measuring the short- and medium-term vulnerabilities of the bank to IRRBB,
      assuming that it is able to continue in business (a going-concern viewpoint).

98.23 An earnings-based measure is therefore commonly used to assess the ability of a
      bank to generate stable earnings over a medium-term horizon, which will allow it
      to pay a stable level of dividend and reduce the beta on its equity price and
      therefore reduce its cost of capital. Hence, it is a measure in line with internal
      management and asset and liability management objectives.

98.24 In order to be able to calculate changes in expected earnings under different
      interest rate shocks and stress scenarios, an institution will need to be able to
      project future earnings under both the expected economic scenario that informs
      its corporate plan, and the interest rate shock and stress scenarios so that the
      differences can be measured. Such projections involve a range of further
      assumptions about client/market behaviour, and the bank’s own management
      response to the evolving economic climate, including:

       (1) the volume and type of new/replacement assets and liabilities expected to
           be originated over the evaluation period;

       (2) the volume and type of asset and liability redemptions/reductions over that
           period;


       (3) the interest rate basis and margin associated with the new assets and
           liabilities, and with those redeemed/withdrawn; and

       (4) the impact of any fees collected/paid for exercise of options.

98.25 In practical terms, this may result in modelling of earnings under three different
      states:

       (1) run-off balance sheet: existing assets and liabilities not replaced as they
           mature, except to the extent necessary to fund the remaining balance sheet;

       (2) constant balance sheet: total balance sheet size and shape maintained by
           assuming like-for-like replacement of assets and liabilities as they run off; and

       (3) dynamic balance sheet: incorporating future business expectations, adjusted
           for the relevant scenario in a consistent manner, ie this is the most
           meaningful approach.

98.26 Under an economic value approach, the measure of IRRBB is the theoretical
      change in the net embedded market value of the whole banking book.

98.27 The EV of a tradable instrument is its present value (PV). In the absence of
      embedded options, the PV of the instrument is determined from its contractual
      cash flows, which are discounted to reflect current market rates. As a first
      implication, instruments with short-term or variable rate cash flows have a
      present value that more nearly equals their face value (ie their carrying value). As
      a second implication, a change in market rates would not change the EV of such
      instruments. Third, the PV of an interest rate-sensitive instrument with uncertain
      contractual cash flows can only be valued on the basis of assumptions about
      behaviour and timing, which will tend to vary dependent upon external factors.




98.28 Applying the concept of EV to the whole balance sheet of a bank is more
      challenging: the banking book contains assets and liabilities that are accounted
      for at held-to-maturity valuation, and for which there may not be observable
      market prices (eg loans and receivables are not as readily marketable and their
      market value cannot be determined directly). Moreover, there may be embedded
      under- and overvaluations in the book on a mark-to-market basis, representing
      income or costs that will emerge in future reported earnings. In addition, margins
      on loans may be very heterogeneous, thus making determination of an
      appropriate discount rate problematic, and the cash flows that are being valued
      are subject to variation depending upon customer behaviour in response to rate
      changes (and customers may not behave as might rationally be expected). Finally,
      there may be structural positions (eg assets held to stabilise return on non-
      maturity deposits and/or equity) which will produce a significant change in value
      under EV measurement, but where the risk measured is a direct corollary of risk
      reduction from an earnings volatility perspective.


For example, a bank with $100 of capital could manage its earnings
                   volatility by investing all capital in a long-dated fixed rate government
                   security – which would lock in a consistent income but produce
                   economic value risk if market rates changed and the mark-to-market
                   value of the security declined. If its aim was to achieve economic value
                   stability, it could invest its capital in the overnight market, but its
                   earnings would then fluctuate with market interest rates. It is not
                   possible for it to eliminate both EV and earnings risks simultaneously,
                   so a trade-off is needed.


98.29 To avoid the complexity of measuring total EV, banks typically therefore focus on
      measuring the level of change to the net present value of the relevant balance
      sheet items, based on existing or adjusted cash flows that are revalued in line
      with the interest rate shock and stress scenarios. The change in the valuation is a
      measure of the level of IRRBB, and can be compared with the current value of
      equity to determine the change to the EVE.


Key considerations and assumptions
98.30 Both measures of IRRBB are significantly impacted by assumptions made for the
      purposes of risk quantification:




       (1) the range of shocks to the possible changes in the level, slope and shape of
           interest rate yield curves that are required to produce an IRRBB effect on EV
           or earnings, and the economic stress scenarios that would be consistent with
           these shocks;

       (2) expectations for the exercise of options (explicit and implicit) by both the
           bank itself and its customers under the given scenarios;

       (3) treatment in risk quantifications of balances and interest flows arising from
           non-maturity deposits (NMDs);

       (4) the bank’s own determination of the implied investment term of the bank’s
           own equity capital liability; and

       (5) the implications for IRRBB of adopted accounting practices.

98.31 In order to produce a quantitative estimate of IRRBB, it is necessary to assume a
      shock to current interest rate levels, which would allow the change in EV or
      earnings, and ultimately the effect on equity, to be computed. The size and shape
      of the shock will determine the measured outcome, and a range of shocks may
      be needed to identify all the potential facets of IRRBB (eg basis risks would not
      be captured by shocks that assume only parallel shifts of similar quantum in all
      yield curves). Designing interest rate change scenarios that are relevant to the
      business and sufficiently stressful is a key element of IRRBB management

98.32 Behaviour of option positions is one of the key set of assumptions that drive risk
      quantification measures. The approach taken by banks generally differs between
      automatic options, where the customer and bank can assume that the exercise of
      options will be based on rational expectations, and behavioural options, where
      behaviour will not always be rational and behavioural assumptions need to be
      used instead.

98.33 Automatic option positions can therefore be valued on the basis that exercise will
      always (and only) occur when there is financial benefit (with valuation based on
      standard financial modelling techniques and the results are fed into EV
      estimates). The rational expectation that the options will be exercised can also be
      readily fed into forward projections of interest margin under earnings-based
      measures.


98.34 Behavioural option positions require more complex analysis of expected
      outcomes, since customers may exercise some options even when it is not in their
      financial interest to do so, or may not exercise options even when it would be to

       their benefit. The most complex area of behavioural analysis is for prepayment
       options on loans: the right to redeem early may be included voluntarily in a loan
       contract, or imposed on the lender by operation of national law; there may or
       may not be early redemption penalties payable, but again the size of these
       penalties may not reflect the actual economic costs and benefits involved (eg if
       limited by law or by operation of customer redress policy); and customers may
       choose to redeem for other reasons than the availability of a new loan at lower
       cost (eg due housing prices, borrowers’ demographics, changing family
       composition, tax changes).

98.35 However, not all borrowers will act irrationally, and exercise of early redemption
      options will tend to have a detrimental effect on either an EV or an earnings-
      based measurement, ie in a classic case of convexity risk, borrowers will tend to
      repay fixed rate borrowings when rates fall (so that they can borrow again at a
      lower rate) and retain fixed rate positions when market rates rise (so that banks
      are unable to lend at the higher rates). In order to manage this redemption or
      extension risk, banks model their books to establish how much should be
      hedged, and for what period, in order to match their best expectations of cash
      flows. Such behavioural modelling is clearly prone to error, and needs frequent
      updating so that hedge positions can be adjusted. Therefore, when using
      economic value and earnings-based measures, banks need to review and adjust
      their calculations to account for any expected behaviours.

98.36 The use of economic value and earnings-based measures involves estimating
      cash flows, but the content and treatment is different: for EV measures, all
      existing balance sheet items (both principal and interest flows) are discounted at
      a relevant rate, whereas NII measures include all cash flows, including all margins
      and principal flows from expected future business, and are normally not
      discounted.

98.37 NMDs are liabilities of the banks in which the depositor is free to withdraw at any
      time since they have no contractually agreed maturity date. Notwithstanding,
      NMD balances have historically proved to be relatively stable in practice, even
      when market rates change, and balances lost can usually be replaced with new
      deposits at the same rate – so, overall, NMDs behave differently to other more
      rate-sensitive funding. Any interest paid on NMDs is usually at rates significantly
      below those paid for wholesale or larger-denomination deposits, so NMD
      balances have historically represented an important source of stable and cost-
      effective funding.


     A subset of NMDs is non-interest bearing current accounts, where
                   balances may fluctuate but are generally not interest bearing: current
                   account customers hold balances mainly for transactional purposes,
                   and are more sensitive to service levels.

       However, NMD sensitivity may have increased as a result of the
                   sustained period of accommodative monetary policy in some of the
                   world’s largest economies.


98.38 In considering IRRBB, the focus for some banks is therefore primarily on
      managing the risk of earnings volatility arising from NMDs. In order to achieve
      this, banks first identify core deposits, ie that element of NMDs that can be
      considered to be particularly stable under different interest rate scenarios so that
      a behavioural maturity can be ascribed specifically to them and matching assets
      allocated to stabilise earnings. In assessing core balances, banks discount those
      elements of transactional accounts which are subject to regular fluctuation
      (withdrawal followed by re-deposit) and overall seasonality of the NMD book.

98.39 The matching book of assets may then be managed dynamically to adjust for
      changes in levels of core deposits, and to maintain a constant maturity in line
      with expected behaviour and the bank’s risk appetite. Although the behavioural
      maturity may be determined to be very long, the matching asset position carries
      risk to a bank’s EV since, being fixed rate and of some duration, the net present
      value of this portfolio will vary with general interest rates. The maturity profile
      chosen will therefore be a compromise between protection of earnings for an
      extended period and increased risk to EV that could materialise on a shock event
      (eg a deposit run on NMDs, failure of the bank). Internal risk measures can be
      used to evaluate the extent and impact of the compromise made.


One common technique for achieving a constant maturity profile is a
                   replicating portfolio of matching assets that produces a moving
                   average fixed return in line with the risk appetite (eg a portfolio where
                   one sixtieth of the total is reinvested each month for five years fixed
                   will deliver a weighted average maturity of 2.5 years and a moving
                   average of the five-year rate).





98.40 In the same way as with NMDs, a bank’s own equity capital liability represents an
      important source of structural risk and endowment return – in accounting terms,
      equity is the net value of assets less liabilities, so it represents assets for which
      there are no funding liabilities. Equity usually has a cost in the form of a dividend
       (although not in the case of mutual or cooperative organisations), and banks
       therefore seek to stabilise the earnings that can be made on assets funded by
       equity.

98.41 The technique involves defining net equity capital that is eligible for behavioural
      treatment – some assets are non-interest bearing (eg land and buildings) and
      may be considered to be financed by equity, so the value of equity available for
      behavioural treatment may be reduced accordingly. Since equity capital has no
      contractual price reset date, banks determine their own strategies for managing
      the earnings volatility that arises from it using techniques similar to those for
      NMDs. Given that equity may be written down as a result of losses, regulators will
      normally focus on the EVE risk associated with any earnings profile ascribed to
      equity that may materialise as losses under stress events.


    Banks may also determine that a portion of equity should remain
                    invested short-term as a buffer against losses that may be incurred
                    under a more general business stress.



Quantifying IRRBB: economic value
98.42 Change in economic value can be measured using a variety of techniques, the
      most common of which are:

       (1) PV01: present value of a single basis point change in interest rates based on
           gap analysis;

       (2) EVE: economic value of equity; and

       (3) EVaR: economic value at risk.

98.43 The techniques differ in their complexity and ability to capture different types of
      interest rate sensitivity (gap risk (parallel and non-parallel), yield curve risk, basis
      risk and option risk). Multiple measures of EV sensitivity therefore produce a
      better overall understanding of risks embedded in the banking book.




98.44 Gap analysis can be used to derive the duration profile of the banking book or,
      equivalently, the profile of the present value of a single basis point change in
      interest rates (PV01). Gap analysis allocates all relevant interest rate-sensitive
       assets and liabilities to a certain number of predefined time buckets according to
       their next contractual reset date. The analysis also allocates equity, NMDs,
       prepaying loans or other instruments with future cash flows subject to customer
       behaviours according to general/behavioural assumptions regarding their
       maturity or reset date. It then measures the arithmetic difference (the gap)
       between the amounts of assets and liabilities in each time bucket, in absolute
       terms. Each time bucket gap can be multiplied by an assumed change in interest
       rates to yield an approximation of the change in NII that would result from an
       increase in interest rates. This method gives a visual impression of the risk
       exposure dispersion relative to the repricing profile, reflecting exposures to
       parallel as well as non-parallel gap risk. It does not, however, quantify this risk.
       The measure assumes that all positions within a particular time bucket mature
       and reprice simultaneously, ignoring potential basis risks within the gaps.


     A variant of the technique, modified duration, could be applied, which
                   shows the relative change in the market value of a financial instrument
                   corresponding to marginal parallel shift of the yield curve (eg by 1
                   percentage point). The weakness of this technique is that it measures
                   only marginal shifts of the yield curve and works only for parallel shifts.


98.45 EV measures mainly focus on valuing the cash flows arising from existing assets
      and liabilities under different future interest scenarios, ignoring future business
      flows. The change in EV (ie the change in the NPV of future cash flows as a result
      of a change in rates) can be calculated across all types of assets and liabilities.
      When a change in the EV of the whole banking book is calculated, the outcome is
      highly influenced by the treatment of the bank’s own equity capital liability in the
      calculation. There are two possible approaches:

       (1) Since accounting equity is the net residual figure that arises from subtracting
           total liabilities from total assets (including off-balance sheet items),
           measuring the change in the net present value of those assets and liabilities
           under a stressed interest rate scenario shows the actual level of risk to the
           economic value of equity. In this calculation, therefore, no rate or term is
           applied to equity itself, which is therefore excluded, and the NPV outcome is
           compared with the starting value of equity in order to measure the
           proportionate size of the change. This is the EVE measure.




       (2) Given that equity finances surplus assets that earn an endowment return for
           the bank, the change in value of any asset portfolio that has been created to
           reduce the volatility of earnings on equity is not a relevant EV risk for the
           bank (ie it has taken the EV risk specifically to hedge earnings risk). In this
           calculation, therefore, equity is included in the calculation and treated as
           having the same interest rate/term characteristics as the portfolio of assets
           that hedges the earnings on it. The NPV outcome is still compared with the
           starting value of equity, but measures only risks arising from non-structural
           positions. This measure is earnings-adjusted EV

98.46 EVE measures the theoretical change in the net present value of the balance
      sheet excluding equity. The measure therefore depicts the change in equity value
      resulting from an interest rate shock. Under this method, the value of equity
      under alternative stress scenarios is compared with the value under a base
      scenario. All cash flows from on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet interest rate-
      sensitive items in the banking book may be included in the computation. The
      market value of equity is computed as the present value of asset cash flows, less
      the present value of liability cash flows, without including assumptions on the
      interest rate sensitivity of equity. For internal measurement purposes, a bank may
      complement its computation of EVE with a separate earnings-adjusted EV model
      that uses assumptions about the investment term of equity, whereby its interest
      rate sensitivity is taken into account.

98.47 The accuracy of the measure is extremely dependent upon the precision of the
      cash flows calculated, and on the discount rates used in the calculation. When the
      expected cash flows are calculated, any likelihood that the size and the timing of
      future cash flows may differ between scenarios depending upon customer
      behaviour in reaction to the rate environment needs to be considered.

98.48 Depending on its specific design, an EV/EVE measure can capture all types of
      interest rate sensitivity. Gap risk (parallel and non-parallel) will be captured
      depending on the specific yield curve risk used in the alternative scenario. In
      computing EV, a full revaluation of automatic options would be normal under
      each of the alternative scenarios, so automatic option risk measurement is an
      integral part of a standard EV measure. Behavioural optionality can also be
      captured if stressed behavioural assumptions are used in alternative scenarios.
      Banks can then compute the EV effect of a change in customer behaviour either
      separately or in conjunction with a yield curve shift.

98.49 EV is a technique that can also be used to estimate basis risk in the banking book,
      either in isolation, or when combined with a general yield curve shift or with a
      change in assumed parameters. Basis risk can be measured by designing a
      scenario under which there is a divergence in the different base rates to which a
      bank is specifically sensitive.


98.50 Economic value at risk (EVaR) measures the expected maximum reduction of
      market value that can be incurred under normal market circumstances over a
      given time horizon or holding period and subject to a given confidence level. For
      calculation of EVaR in the banking book, the changes in the market value of the
      banking book and thus of the equity are computed for a set of alternative yield
      curve scenarios. When the EVaR approach is applied to the banking book, the
      time horizon is normally consistent with the economic model of the banking
      book. The standard VaR approach comprises three different techniques: historical
      simulation, variance-covariance approach and Monte Carlo simulation.

Under this approach, interest rates of different tenors are derived from
                   historical observations of changes and a variance-covariance matrix is
                   constructed to account for the correlations between the rate shocks
                   across tenors.


98.51 EVaR models are suited to capture all types of interest rate sensitivity such as EVE.
      However, EVaR measurement techniques have their limitations. EVaR is designed
      for normal market circumstances and does not adequately assess tail risk. Both
      historical value-at-risk (VaR) and variance-covariance VaR are backward-looking
      methods which are prone to missing the tail events that carry significant risks.
      The Monte Carlo simulation method is very demanding in terms of technology
      and computational power.


Quantifying IRRBB: earnings-based measures
98.52 Earnings-based measures look at the expected increase or reduction in NII over a
      shorter time horizon (typically one to three years, up to a maximum five years)
      resulting from interest rate movements that are composed of either a gradual or
      a one-time large interest rate shock. The change in NII is the difference in the
      expected NII between a base scenario and an alternative, more stressful scenario.
      The base case scenario reflects the bank’s current corporate plan in projecting the
      volume, pricing and repricing dates of future business transactions. Interest rates
      used for resetting transactions in the base scenario can be derived from market
      expected rates or from spot rates. The rate for each instrument will also contain
      appropriate projected spreads and margins.



98.53 In assessing the possible extent of change in NII, banks can use models to predict
      the path of rates and the run-off of existing assets and liabilities. Earnings
      measures can be differentiated according to the complexity of their forward
      calculations of income, from simple run-off models which assume that existing

       assets and liabilities mature without replacement, to constant balance sheet
       models which assume that assets and liabilities are replaced like for like, to the
       most complex dynamic models which reflect the changes in the volumes and
       types of business that will be undertaken (or not undertaken) in differing interest
       rate environments, with the expected level of prices in those circumstances.

98.54 An earnings-based measure analyses the interest rate risk profile of the banking
      book in a detailed way tailored to the bank’s specific circumstances. As it can
      account for new business, it reflects a full going-concern perspective. Depending
      on the design of the alternative scenarios, this method is able to capture all
      different types of interest rate risk sensitivity. Banks are able to incorporate fully
      the cash flow changes that occur under alternative scenarios due to automatic
      options.

98.55 However, the results of the modelling are highly sensitive to assumptions about
      customer behaviour as well as to the anticipated management responses to
      different rate scenarios. Earnings-based measures cover a relatively short time
      horizon, so changes in earnings falling beyond the observation period are
      ignored (including those arising from any behavioural treatment of NMDs and/or
      equity that involves long-term structural positions to reduce earnings volatility).
      Last but not least, earnings-based measures do not necessarily identify the risks
      to capital that can arise from revaluation of available-for-sale portfolios.


Derivation of the interest rate shocks
98.56 SRP31 describes six prescribed interest rate shock scenarios that banks should
      apply to parallel and non-parallel gap risks for EVE and two prescribed interest
      rate shock scenarios for NII. In order to derive these shocks, the following general
      steps are taken.

98.57 Step 1: generate a 16-year time series of daily average interest rates for each
      currency c. The average daily interest rates from the year 2000 (3 January 2000) to
      2015 (31 December 2015) are contained in Table 1. The average local percentile
      of the rate series is determined by calculating the average rate across all daily
      rates in time buckets 3m, 6m, 1Y, 2Y, 5Y, 7Y, 10Y, 15Y and 20Y.



        Average interest rates by currency                                                 Table 1


                     ARS    AUD   BRL    CAD       CHF   CNY   EUR    GBP   HKD      IDR     INR

        Average      3363   517   1153       341   183   373   300    375    295   1466      719


                     JPY    KRW   MXN        RUB   SAR   SEK   SGD    TRY   USD      ZAR

        Average       89    471   754        868   360   330   230   1494    329     867



98.58 Step 2: the global shock parameter is prescribed based on the weighted average
       of the currency-specific shock parameters,         . The shock parameter for scenario i
       is a weighted average of the αi,c,h across all currencies and defined as αi. The
       following baseline global parameters are obtained:

        Baseline global interest rate shock parameters                                     Table 2


        Parallel                                                               60%


        Short rate                                                             85%


        Long rate                                                              40%




98.59 Applying the αi from Table 2 to the average long-term rates from Table 1 results
       in the revised interest rate shocks by currency for parallel, short and long
       segments of the yield curve in Table 3.




        Revised interest rate shocks,
                                                                                         Table 3


                   ARS    AUD     BRL   CAD    CHF    CNY    EUR     GBP    HKD    IDR       INR

        Parallel   2018   310     692   204    110    224    180     225    177    880       431

        Short      2858   440     980   290    155    317    255     319    251   1246       611

        Long       1345   207     461   136     73    149    120     150    118    586       288


                   JPY    KRW     MXN   RUB    SAR    SEK    SGD     TRY    USD   ZAR


        Parallel    53    283     452   521    216    198    138     896    197    520

        Short       75    401     641   738    306    280    196     1270   279    737

        Long        35    188     301   347    144    132    92      597    131    347



98.60 However, the proposed interest rate shock calibration can lead to unrealistically
      low interest rate shocks for some currencies and to unrealistically high interest
      rate shocks for others. In order to ensure a minimum level of prudence and a
       level playing field, a floor of 100 basis points and variable caps (denoted as          )
       are set for the scenarios concerned, those caps being 500 basis points for the
       short-term, 400 basis points for the parallel and 300 basis points for the long-
       term interest rate shock scenario.

98.61 The change in the risk-free interest rate for shock scenario j and currency c can
       be defined as follows, where        is 400, 500 or 300 when j is parallel, short or
       long respectively.

                    In the case of the rotation scenarios,         cannot exceed 500 basis

                    points and            cannot exceed 300 basis points.




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                              1226/1626
98.62 Applying the caps and floors to the shocks described in Table 3 results in the final
      set of interest rate shocks by currency that is shown in SRP31.90.

98.63 Supervisors may, applying national discretion, set a higher floor under the local
      interest rate shock scenarios for their home currency. Supervisors may also,
      applying national discretion, set a zero or negative lower bound for the post-
      shock interest rates, where:




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                          1227/1626
                                 SRP99
                                 Application guidance
                                 This chapter contains additional guidance on
                                 supervisory transparency and cross-border
                                 cooperation. It also provides references to other
                                 Basel Committee guidelines that support
                                 supervisory review under Pillar 2 and additional
                                 considerations for the application of Pillar 2 to
                                 systemically important banks.


                                 Version effective as of
                                 15 Dec 2019
                                 First version in the format of the consolidated
                                 framework.




Supervisory transparency and accountability
99.1   The supervision of banks is not an exact science, and therefore, discretionary
       elements within the supervisory review process are inevitable. Supervisors must
       take care to carry out their obligations in a transparent and accountable manner.
       Supervisors should make publicly available the criteria to be used in the review of
       banks’ internal capital assessments. If a supervisor chooses to set target or trigger
       ratios or to set categories of capital in excess of the regulatory minimum, factors
       that may be considered in doing so should be publicly available. Where the
       capital requirements are set above the minimum for an individual bank, the
       supervisor should explain to the bank the risk characteristics specific to the bank
       which resulted in the requirement and any remedial action necessary.


Enhanced cross-border communication and cooperation
99.2   Effective supervision of large banking organisations necessarily entails a close
       and continuous dialogue between industry participants and supervisors. In
       addition, the Framework will require enhanced cooperation between supervisors,
       on a practical basis, especially for the cross-border supervision of complex
       international banking groups.

99.3   The Framework will not change the legal responsibilities of national supervisors
       for the regulation of their domestic institutions or the arrangements for
       consolidated supervision as set out in the existing Basel Committee standards.
       The home country supervisor is responsible for the oversight of the
       implementation of the Framework for a banking group on a consolidated basis;
       host country supervisors are responsible for supervision of those entities
       operating in their countries. In order to reduce the compliance burden and avoid
       regulatory arbitrage, the methods and approval processes used by a bank at the
       group level may be accepted by the host country supervisor at the local level,
       provided that they adequately meet the local supervisor’s requirements.
       Wherever possible, supervisors should avoid performing redundant and
       uncoordinated approval and validation work in order to reduce the
       implementation burden on banks, and conserve supervisory resources.

99.4   In implementing the Framework, supervisors should communicate the respective
       roles of home country and host country supervisors as clearly as possible to
       banking groups with significant cross-border operations in multiple jurisdictions.
       The home country supervisor would lead this coordination effort in cooperation
       with the host country supervisors. In communicating the respective supervisory
       roles, supervisors will take care to clarify that existing supervisory legal
       responsibilities remain unchanged.





99.5   The Committee supports a pragmatic approach of mutual recognition for
       internationally active banks as a key basis for international supervisory co-
       operation. This approach implies recognising common capital adequacy
       approaches when considering the entities of internationally active banks in host
       jurisdictions, as well as the desirability of minimising differences in the national
       capital adequacy regulations between home and host jurisdictions so that
       subsidiary banks are not subjected to excessive burden.

99.6   Before giving consent to the creation of a cross-border establishment, the host
       country authority and the bank’s and banking group’s home country authorities
       should each review the allocation of supervisory responsibilities recommended in
       the Concordat in order to determine whether its application to the proposed
       establishment is appropriate. If, as a result of the establishment’s proposed
       activities or the location and structure of the bank’s or the banking group’s
       management, either authority concludes that the division of supervisory
       responsibilities suggested in the Concordat is not appropriate, then that authority
       consults with the other authority on how to promote effective supervisory
       cooperation, either generally or in respect of specific activities. A similar review
       should be undertaken by all authorities if there is a significant change in the bank’
       s or banking group’s activities or structure.


    See Principles for the supervision of banks’ foreign establishments
                   (Concordat), Basel Committee, May 1983, www.bis.org/publ/bcbsc312.
                   htm .


99.7   Before giving either inward or outward consent for the creation of a cross-border
       banking establishment, a supervisory authority should establish an understanding
       with the other authority that they may each gather information to the extent
       necessary for effective home country supervision, either through on-site
       examination or by other means satisfactory to the recipient, from the cross-
       border establishments located in one another’s jurisdictions of banks or banking
       groups chartered or incorporated in their respective jurisdictions. Through such
       bilateral arrangements, all home country authorities should be able to improve
       their ability to review the financial condition of their banks’ and banking groups’
       cross-border banking establishments.



Guidance related to the supervisory review process
99.8   The Basel Committee has published guidelines and sound practices which
       supervisors should take into account during the supervisory review process.
       These documents are available on the website of the Bank for International
       Settlements ( www.bis.org/bcbs/publications.htm ).


Pillar 2 for systemically important banks
99.9   The higher loss absorbency requirement for global systemically important banks
       (G-SIBs) incorporates elements of both Pillar 1 and Pillar 2. The indicator-based
       measurement approach, the pre-specified requirements for banks within each
       bucket and the fixed consequences of not meeting the requirement can be
       considered close to Pillar 1. However, the use of supervisory judgment to finalise
       the allocation of individual banks to buckets can be considered close to Pillar 2.
       Irrespective of whether the higher loss absorbency requirement is considered to
       be a Pillar 1 or a Pillar 2 approach, it is essentially a requirement in addition to
       other capital buffers and the minimum capital requirement, with a predetermined
       set of consequences for banks that do not meet the requirement. The same is
       true of the higher loss absorbency requirement for domestic systemically
       important banks (D-SIBs).

99.10 In some jurisdictions, Pillar 2 may need to adapt to accommodate the existence
      of the higher loss absorbency requirements for G-SIBs or D-SIBs. Specifically, it
      would make sense for authorities to ensure that a bank’s Pillar 2 requirements do
      not require capital to be held twice for issues related to the externalities
      associated with distress or failure of G-SIBs or D-SIBs if they are captured by the
      higher loss absorbency requirement. However, Pillar 2 will normally capture other
      risks that are not directly related to these externalities of G-SIBs and D-SIBs (eg
      interest rate and concentration risks), so capital meeting the higher loss
      absorbency requirement should not be permitted to be simultaneously used to
      meet Pillar 2 requirement that relate to these other risks.



                                 DIS
                                 Disclosure requirements
                                 This standard sets out disclosure requirements,
                                 which aim to encourage market discipline.




                                 DIS10
                                 Definitions and applications
                                 This chapter describes the scope of application
                                 of disclosure requirements, along with
                                 requirements on the location, frequency, timing
                                 of reporting, assurance considerations and
                                 guiding principles on high-quality disclosures.

                                 Download all of the disclosure templates and
                                 tables of the DIS standard in Excel format.


                             Introduction
10.1   The provision of meaningful information about common key risk metrics to
       market participants is a fundamental tenet of a sound banking system. It reduces
       information asymmetry and helps promote comparability of banks’ risk profiles
       within and across jurisdictions. Pillar 3 of the Basel framework aims to promote
       market discipline through regulatory disclosure requirements. These
       requirements enable market participants to access key information relating to a
       bank’s regulatory capital and risk exposures in order to increase transparency and
       confidence about a bank’s exposure to risk and the overall adequacy of its
       regulatory capital.


Scope of application
10.2   Disclosure requirements are an integral part of the Basel framework. Unless
       otherwise stated, for Tables and Templates applicable to “all banks”, it refers to
       internationally active banks at the top consolidated level.


Reporting location
10.3   Banks must publish their Pillar 3 report in a standalone document that provides a
       readily accessible source of prudential measures for users. The Pillar 3 report may
       be appended to, or form a discrete section of, a bank's financial reporting, but it
       must be easily identifiable to users. Signposting of disclosure requirements is
       permitted in certain circumstances, as set out in DIS10.25 to DIS10.27. Banks or
       supervisors must also make available on their websites an archive (for a suitable
       retention period to be determined by the relevant supervisor) of Pillar 3 reports
       (quarterly, semi-annual and annual) relating to prior reporting periods.


Implementation dates
10.4   Disclosure requirements are applicable for Pillar 3 reports related to fiscal periods
       that include or come after the specific calendar implementation date.


Frequency and timing of disclosures
10.5   The frequencies of disclosure as indicated in the disclosure templates and tables
       vary between quarterly, semiannual and annual reporting depending upon the
       nature of the specific disclosure requirement.



10.6   A bank's Pillar 3 report must be published concurrently with its financial report
       for the corresponding period. If a Pillar 3 disclosure is required to be published
       for a period when a bank does not produce any financial report, the disclosure
       requirement must be published as soon as practicable. However, the time lag
       must not exceed that allowed to the bank for its regular financial reporting
       period-ends (eg if a bank reports only annually and its annual financial
       statements are made available five weeks after the end of the annual reporting
       period-end, interim Pillar 3 disclosures on a quarterly or semiannual basis must
       be available within five weeks after the end of the relevant quarter or semester).


Retrospective disclosures, disclosure of transitional metrics and
reporting periods
10.7   In templates which require the disclosure of data points for current and previous
       reporting periods, the disclosure of the data point for the previous period is not
       required when a metric for a new standard is reported for the first time unless
       this is explicitly stated in the disclosure requirement.

10.8   Unless otherwise specified in the disclosure templates, when a bank is under a
       transitional regime permitted by the standards, the transitional data should be
       reported unless the bank already complies with the fully loaded requirements.
       Banks should clearly state whether the figures disclosed are computed on a
       transitional or fully-loaded basis. Where applicable, banks under a transitional
       regime may separately disclose fully-loaded figures in addition to transitional
       metrics.

10.9   Unless otherwise specified in the disclosure templates, the data required for
       annual, semiannual and quarterly disclosures should be for the corresponding 12-
       month, six-month and three-month period, respectively.


Assurance of Pillar 3 data
10.10 The information provided by banks under Pillar 3 must be subject, at a minimum,
      to the same level of internal review and internal control processes as the
      information provided by banks for their financial reporting (ie the level of
      assurance must be the same as for information provided within the management
      discussion and analysis part of the financial report).




10.11 Banks must establish a formal board-approved disclosure policy for Pillar 3
      information that sets out the internal controls and procedures for disclosure of
      such information. The key elements of this policy should be described in the year-
      end Pillar 3 report or cross-referenced to another location where they are
      available. The board of directors and senior management are responsible for
      establishing and maintaining an effective internal control structure over the
       disclosure of financial information, including Pillar 3 disclosures. They must also
       ensure that appropriate review of the disclosures takes place. One or more senior
       officers of a bank, ideally at board level or equivalent, must attest in writing that
       Pillar 3 disclosures have been prepared in accordance with the board-agreed
       internal control processes.


Proprietary and confidential information
10.12 The Committee believes that the disclosure requirements strike an appropriate
      balance between the need for meaningful disclosure and the protection of
      proprietary and confidential information. In exceptional cases, disclosure of
      certain items required by Pillar 3 may reveal the position of a bank or contravene
      its legal obligations by making public information that is proprietary or
      confidential in nature. In such cases, a bank does not need to disclose those
      specific items, but must disclose more general information about the subject
      matter of the requirement instead. It must also explain in the narrative
      commentary to the disclosure requirement the fact that the specific items of
      information have not been disclosed and the reasons for this.


Guiding principles of banks’ Pillar 3 disclosures
10.13 The Committee has agreed upon five guiding principles for banks' Pillar 3
      disclosures. Pillar 3 complements the minimum risk-based capital requirements
      and other quantitative requirements (Pillar 1) and the supervisory review process
      (Pillar 2) and aims to promote market discipline by providing meaningful
      regulatory information to investors and other interested parties on a consistent
      and comparable basis. The guiding principles aim to provide a firm foundation
      for achieving transparent, high-quality Pillar 3 risk disclosures that will enable
      users to better understand and compare a bank's business and its risks.
Principle 1: Disclosures should be clear
10.14 Disclosures should be presented in a form that is understandable to key
      stakeholders (ie investors, analysts, financial customers and others) and
      communicated through an accessible medium. Important messages should be
      highlighted and easy to find. Complex issues should be explained in simple
      language with important terms defined. Related risk information should be
      presented together.


Principle 2: Disclosures should be comprehensive
10.15 Disclosures should describe a bank's main activities and all significant risks,
      supported by relevant underlying data and information. Significant changes in
      risk exposures between reporting periods should be described, together with the
      appropriate response by management.

10.16 Disclosures should provide sufficient information in both qualitative and
      quantitative terms on a bank's processes and procedures for identifying,
      measuring and managing those risks. The level of detail of such disclosure should
      be proportionate to a bank's complexity.

10.17 Approaches to disclosure should be sufficiently flexible to reflect how senior
      management and the board of directors internally assess and manage risks and
      strategy, helping users to better understand a bank's risk tolerance/appetite.


Principle 3: Disclosures should be meaningful to users
10.18 Disclosures should highlight a bank's most significant current and emerging risks
      and how those risks are managed, including information that is likely to receive
      market attention. Where meaningful, linkages must be provided to line items on
      the balance sheet or the income statement. Disclosures that do not add value to
      users' understanding or do not communicate useful information should be
      avoided. Furthermore, information which is no longer meaningful or relevant to
      users should be removed.


Principle 4: Disclosures should be consistent over time
10.19 Disclosures should be consistent over time to enable key stakeholders to identify
      trends in a bank's risk profile across all significant aspects of its business.
      Additions, deletions and other important changes in disclosures from previous
      reports, including those arising from a bank's specific, regulatory or market
      developments, should be highlighted and explained.




Principle 5: Disclosures should be comparable across banks
10.20 The level of detail and the format of presentation of disclosures should enable
      key stakeholders to perform meaningful comparisons of business activities,
      prudential metrics, risks and risk management between banks and across
      jurisdictions.


Presentation of the disclosure requirements – Templates and tables
10.21 The disclosure requirements are presented either in the form of templates or
      tables. Templates must be completed with quantitative data in accordance with
      the definitions provided. Tables generally relate to qualitative requirements, but
      quantitative information is also required in some instances. Banks may choose
      the format they prefer when presenting the information requested in tables.

10.22 In line with Principle 3 in DIS10.18, the information provided in the templates and
      tables should be meaningful to users. The disclosure requirements in this
      document that necessitate an assessment from banks are specifically identified.
      When preparing these individual tables and templates, banks will need to
      consider carefully how widely the disclosure requirement should apply. If a bank
      considers that the information requested in a template or table would not be
      meaningful to users, for example because the exposures and risk-weighted asset
      (RWA) amounts are deemed immaterial, it may choose not to disclose part or all
      of the information requested. In such circumstances, however, the bank will be
      required to explain in a narrative commentary why it considers such information
      not to be meaningful to users. It should describe the portfolios excluded from the
      disclosure requirement and the aggregate total RWA those portfolios represent.

10.23 For templates, the format is designated as either fixed or flexible:

       (1) Where the format of a template is described as fixed, banks must complete
           the fields in accordance with the instructions given. If a row/column is not
           considered to be relevant to a bank's activities or the required information
           would not be meaningful to users (eg immaterial from a quantitative
           perspective), the bank may delete the specific row/column from the
           template, but the numbering of the subsequent rows and columns must not
           be altered. Banks may add extra rows and extra columns to fixed format
           templates if they wish to provide additional detail to a disclosure
           requirement by adding sub-rows or columns, but the numbering of
           prescribed rows and columns in the template must not be altered.



       (2) Where the format of a template is described as flexible, banks may present
           the required information either in the format provided in this document or in
           one that better suits the bank. The format for the presentation of qualitative

           information in tables is not prescribed. Notwithstanding, banks should
           comply with the restrictions in presentation, should such restrictions be
           prescribed in the template (eg Template CCR5 in DIS42). In addition, when a
           customised presentation of the information is used, the bank must provide
           information comparable with that required in the disclosure requirement (ie
           at a similar level of granularity as if the template/table were completed as
           presented in this document).

10.24 Banks are encouraged to engage with their national supervisors on the provision
      of the quantitative disclosure requirements in this standard in a common
      electronic format that would facilitate the use of the data.


Presentation of the disclosure requirements – Signposting
10.25 Banks may disclose in a document separate from their Pillar 3 report (eg in a
      bank's annual report or through published regulatory reporting) the templates
      /tables with a flexible format, and the fixed format templates where the criteria in
      DIS10.26 are met. In such circumstances, the bank must signpost clearly in its
      Pillar 3 report where the disclosure requirements have been published. This
      signposting in the Pillar 3 report must include:

       (1) the title and number of the disclosure requirement;

       (2) the full name of the separate document in which the disclosure requirement
           has been published;

       (3) a web link, where relevant; and

       (4) the page and paragraph number of the separate document where the
           disclosure requirements can be located.

10.26 The disclosure requirements for templates with a fixed format may be disclosed
      by banks in a separate document other than the Pillar 3 report, provided all of the
      following criteria are met:

       (1) the information contained in the signposted document is equivalent in terms
           of presentation and content to that required in the fixed template and allows
           users to make meaningful comparison with information provided by banks
           disclosing the fixed format templates;



       (2) the information contained in the signposted document is based on the same
           scope of consolidation as the one used in the disclosure requirement;

       (3) the disclosure in the signposted document is mandatory; and

       (4) the supervisory authority responsible for ensuring the implementation of the
           Basel standards is subject to legal constraints in its ability to require the
           reporting of duplicative information.

10.27 Banks can only make use of signposting to another document if the level of
      assurance on the reliability of data in the separate document are equivalent to, or
      greater than, the internal assurance level required for the Pillar 3 report (see
      sections on reporting location and assurance above).


Qualitative narrative to accompany the disclosure requirements
10.28 Banks are expected to supplement the quantitative information provided in both
      fixed and flexible templates with a narrative commentary to explain at least any
      significant changes between reporting periods and any other issues that
      management considers to be of interest to market participants. The form taken
      by this additional narrative is at the bank's discretion.

10.29 Disclosure of additional quantitative and qualitative information will provide
      market participants with a broader picture of a bank´s risk position and promote
      market discipline.

10.30 Additional voluntary risk disclosures allow banks to present information relevant
      to their business model that may not be adequately captured by the standardised
      requirements. Additional quantitative information that banks choose to disclose
      must provide sufficient meaningful information to enable market participants to
      understand and analyse any figures provided. It must also be accompanied by a
      qualitative discussion. Any additional disclosure must comply with the five
      guiding principles above.



                                 DIS20
                                 Overview of risk
                                 management, key prudential
                                 metrics and RWA
                                 This chapter covers disclosures on a bank's
                                 strategy, the senior management and directors'
                                 assessment and management of risk and key
                                 prudential metrics.


                               Introduction
20.1   The disclosure requirements under this section are:

       (1) Template KM1 – Key metrics (at consolidated level)

       (2) Template KM2 – Key metrics – total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC)
           requirements (at resolution group level)

       (3) Table OVA – Bank risk management approach

       (4) Template OV1 – Overview of risk-weighted assets (RWA)

20.2   Template KM1 provides users of Pillar 3 data with a time series set of key
       prudential metrics covering a bank’s available capital (including buffer
       requirements and ratios), its RWA, leverage ratio, Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)
       and Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR). As set out in CAP90.17, banks are required
       to publicly disclose whether they are applying a transitional arrangement for the
       impact of expected credit loss accounting on regulatory capital. If a transitional
       arrangement is applied, Template KM1 will provide users with information on the
       impact on the bank’s regulatory capital and leverage ratios compared to the bank’
       s “fully loaded” capital and leverage ratios had the transitional arrangement not
       been applied.

20.3   Template KM2 requires global systemically important banks (G-SIBs) to disclose
       key metrics on TLAC. Template KM2 becomes effective from the TLAC
       conformance date.

20.4   Table OVA provides information on a bank’s strategy and how senior
       management and the board of directors assess and manage risks.

20.5   Template OV1 provides an overview of total RWA forming the denominator of
       the risk-based capital requirements.



     FAQ
     FAQ1      For counterparty credit risk (CCR) (rows 6-9), the split requested is by
               the exposure at default (EAD) methodology classification used to
               determine exposure levels rather than the RWA methodology
               classification used to determine risk weights. This contradicts the
               presentation for credit risk (rows 1–5) and securitisation (rows 16-19).
               Should line items be added (where necessary) to reconcile the
               disclosure to the total RWA?

               Template OV1 does not request CCR to be split by risk weighting
               methodology, but by EAD methodology. Nevertheless, banks should
               add extra rows, as appropriate, to split the exposures by risk weighting
               methodology*, in order to facilitate the reconciliation with the RWA
               changes in Template CCR7.

               * RWA and capital requirements under the Standardised Approach for
               credit risk weighting are to be subdivided in the standardised approach
               for counterparty credit risk (SA-CCR) and the internal models method
               (IMM), and the same for RWA and capital requirements under the
               internal ratings-based (IRB) approach for credit risk weighting.



Template KM1: Key metrics at consolidated level




Purpose: Provide an overview of a bank's prudential regulatory metrics.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Key prudential metrics related to regulatory capital, leverage ratio and liquidity standards.
Banks are required to disclose each metric's value using the corresponding standard's specifications
for the reporting period-end (designated by T in the template below) as well as the four previous
quarter-end figures (T-1 to T-4).

All metrics are intended to reflect actual bank values for (T), with the exception of "fully loaded ECL"
metrics.

Frequency: Quarterly.

Format: Fixed. If banks wish to add rows to provide additional regulatory or financial metrics, they
must provide definitions for these metrics and a full explanation of how the metrics are calculated
(including the scope of consolidation and the regulatory capital used if relevant). The additional
metrics must not replace the metrics in this disclosure requirement.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant change in each metric's value compared with previous
quarters, including the key drivers of such changes (eg whether the changes are due to changes in
the regulatory framework, group structure or business model).

Banks that apply transitional arrangement for expected credit loss (ECL) are expected to
supplement the template with the key elements of the transition they use.

                                                                   a       b       c        d        e

                                                                   T      T-1     T-2      T-3      T-4

        Available capital (amounts)

  1     Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1)

 1a     Fully loaded ECL accounting model CET1

  2     Tier 1

 2a     Fully loaded ECL accounting model Tier 1

  3     Total capital

 3a     Fully loaded ECL accounting model total capital

        Risk-weighted assets (amounts)

  4     Total risk-weighted assets (RWA)

        Risk-based capital ratios as a percentage of RWA





 5    Common Equity Tier 1 ratio (%)

 5a   Fully loaded ECL accounting model Common Equity
      Tier 1 (%)

 6    Tier 1 ratio (%)

 6a   Fully loaded ECL accounting model Tier 1 ratio (%)

 7    Total capital ratio (%)

 7a   Fully loaded ECL accounting model total capital
      ratio (%)

      Additional CET1 buffer requirements as a
      percentage of RWA

 8    Capital conservation buffer requirement (2.5% from
      2019) (%)

 9    Countercyclical buffer requirement (%)

 10   Bank G-SIB and/or D-SIB additional requirements
      (%)

 11   Total of bank CET1 specific buffer requirements (%)
      (row 8 + row 9 + row 10)

 12   CET1 available after meeting the bank's minimum
      capital requirements (%)

      Basel III leverage ratio

 13   Total Basel III leverage ratio exposure measure

 14   Basel III leverage ratio (%) (row 2 / row 13)

14a   Fully loaded ECL accounting model Basel III
      leverage ratio (%)

      Liquidity Coverage Ratio

 15   Total high-quality liquid assets (HQLA)

 16   Total net cash outflow

 17   LCR (%)

      Net Stable Funding Ratio

 18   Total available stable funding



 19     Total required stable funding

 20     NSFR

Instructions

Row
          Explanation
number

          For fully loaded ECL ratios (%) in rows 5a, 6a, 7a and 14a, the denominator (RWA, Basel
5a, 6a,
          III leverage ratio exposure measure) is also "Fully loaded ECL", ie as if ECL transitional
7a, 14a
          arrangements were not applied.

          CET1 available after meeting the bank's minimum capital requirements (as a percentage
          of risk-weighted assets): it may not necessarily be the difference between row 5 and the
12
          Basel III minimum CET1 requirement of 4.5% because CET1 capital may be used to meet
          the bank's Tier 1 and/or total capital ratio requirements. See instructions to [CC1:68].

          Total Basel III leverage ratio exposure measure: according to specifications set out in
13        DIS80. The amounts may reflect end-of-period values or averages depending on local
          implementation.

          Total HQLA: total adjusted value according to specifications set out in DIS85, using
15        simple averages of daily observations over the previous quarter (ie the average
          calculated over a period of, typically, 90 days).

          Total net cash outflow: total adjusted value according to specifications set out in DIS85,
16        using simple averages of daily observations over the previous quarter (ie the average
          calculated over a period of, typically, 90 days).

Linkages across templates

Template KM2: Key metrics - TLAC requirements (at resolution group
level)




Purpose: Provide summary information about total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) available, and
TLAC requirements applied, at resolution group level under the single point of entry and multiple
point of entry (MPE) approaches.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all resolution groups of G-SIBs.

Content: Key prudential metrics related to TLAC. Banks are required to disclose the figure as of the
end of the reporting period (designated by T in the template below) as well as the previous four
quarter-ends (designed by T-1 to T-4 in the template below). When the banking group includes
more than one resolution group (MPE approach), this template is to be reproduced for each
resolution group.

Frequency: Quarterly.

Format: Fixed.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant change over the reporting period and the key drivers of such
changes.

                                                                   a      b       c      d        e

                                                                   T     T-1     T-2    T-3      T-4

Resolution group 1

1    Total Loss Absorbing Capacity (TLAC) available

1a   Fully loaded ECL accounting model TLAC available

2    Total RWA at the level of the resolution group

3    TLAC as a percentage of RWA (row1/row2) (%)

3a   Fully loaded ECL accounting model TLAC as a percentage
     of fully loaded ECL accounting model RWA (%)

4    Basel III leverage ratio exposure measure at the level of
     the resolution group

5    TLAC as a percentage of Basel III leverage ratio exposure
     measure (row1/row4) (%)

5a   Fully loaded ECL accounting model TLAC as a percentage
     of fully loaded ECL accounting model Basel III leverage
     ratio exposure measure (%)

6a   Does    the   subordination   exemption    in  the
     antepenultimate paragraph of Section 11 of the FSB
     TLAC Term Sheet apply?



6b   Does the subordination exemption in the penultimate
     paragraph of Section 11 of the FSB TLAC Term Sheet
     apply?

6c   If the capped subordination exemption applies, the
     amount of funding issued that ranks pari passu with
     Excluded Liabilities and that is recognised as external
     TLAC, divided by funding issued that ranks pari passu
     with Excluded Liabilities and that would be recognised as
     external TLAC if no cap was applied (%)

Linkages across templates

Amount in [KM2:1/a] is equal to [resolution group-level TLAC1:22/a]

Amount in [KM2:2/a] is equal to [resolution group-level TLAC1:23/a]

Aggregate amounts in [KM2:2/a] across all resolution groups will not necessarily equal or directly
correspond to amount in [KM1:4/a]

Amount in [KM2:3/a] is equal to [resolution group-level TLAC1:25/a]

Amount in [KM2:4/a] is equal to [resolution group-level TLAC1:24/a]

Amount in [KM2:5/a] is equal to [resolution group-level TLAC1:26/a]

[KM2:6a/a] refers to the uncapped exemption in Section 11 of the FSB TLAC Term Sheet, for
jurisdictions in which all liabilities excluded from TLAC specified in Section 10 are statutorily
excluded from the scope of the bail-in tool and therefore cannot legally be written down or
converted to equity in a bail-in resolution. Possible answers for [KM2:6a/a]: [Yes], [No].

[KM2:6b/a] refers to the capped exemption in Section 11 of the FSB TLAC Term Sheet, for
jurisdictions where the resolution authority may, under exceptional circumstances specified in the
applicable resolution law, exclude or partially exclude from bail-in all of the liabilities excluded from
TLAC specified in Section 10, and where the relevant authorities have permitted liabilities that
would otherwise be eligible to count as external TLAC but which rank alongside those excluded
liabilities in the insolvency creditor hierarchy to contribute a quantum equivalent of up to 2.5%
RWA. Possible answers for [KM2:6b/a]: [Yes], [No].

Amount in [KM2:6c/a] is equal to [resolution group-level TLAC1:14/a divided by TLAC1:13/a]. This
only needs to be completed if the answer to [KM2:6b/a] is [Yes].


Table OVA: Bank risk management approach




Purpose: Description of the bank's strategy and how senior management and the board of
directors assess and manage risks, enabling users to gain a clear understanding of the bank's risk
tolerance/appetite in relation to its main activities and all significant risks.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Qualitative information.

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible.

Banks must describe their risk management objectives and policies, in particular:


    How the business model determines and interacts with the overall risk profile (eg the key risks
    related to the business model and how each of these risks is reflected and described in the risk
(a)
    disclosures) and how the risk profile of the bank interacts with the risk tolerance approved by
    the board.


    The risk governance structure: responsibilities attributed throughout the bank (eg oversight
    and delegation of authority; breakdown of responsibilities by type of risk, business unit etc);
(b) relationships between the structures involved in risk management processes (eg board of
    directors, executive management, separate risk committee, risk management structure,
    compliance function, internal audit function).


    Channels to communicate, decline and enforce the risk culture within the bank (eg code of
    conduct; manuals containing operating limits or procedures to treat violations or breaches of
(c)
    risk thresholds; procedures to raise and share risk issues between business lines and risk
    functions).


(d) The scope and main features of risk measurement systems.


      Description of the process of risk information reporting provided to the board and senior
(e)
      management, in particular the scope and main content of reporting on risk exposure.


      Qualitative information on stress testing (eg portfolios subject to stress testing, scenarios
(f)
      adopted and methodologies used, and use of stress testing in risk management).


    The strategies and processes to manage, hedge and mitigate risks that arise from the bank's
(g) business model and the processes for monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges and
    mitigants.

Template OV1: Overview of RWA




Purpose: Provide an overview of total RWA forming the denominator of the risk-based capital
requirements. Further breakdowns of RWA are presented in subsequent parts.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Risk-weighted assets and capital requirements under Pillar 1. Pillar 2 requirements should
not be included.

Frequency: Quarterly.

Format: Fixed.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to identify and explain the drivers behind
differences in reporting periods T and T-1 where these differences are significant.

When minimum capital requirements in column (c) do not correspond to 8% of RWA in column (a),
banks must explain the adjustments made. If the bank uses the Internal Models Method (IMM) for
its equity exposures, it must provide annually a description of the main characteristics of its internal
model in an accompanying narrative.

                                                                        a          b            c

                                                                            RWA             Minimum
                                                                                             capital
                                                                                          requirements

                                                                        T         T-1           T

  1     Credit risk (excluding counterparty credit risk)

  2         Of which: standardised approach

           Of which: foundation internal ratings-based (F-IRB)
  3
        approach

  4         Of which: supervisory slotting approach

           Of which: advanced internal ratings-based (A-IRB)
  5
        approach

  6     Counterparty credit risk (CCR)

           Of which: standardised approach for counterparty
  7
        credit risk

  8         Of which: Internal Model Method (IMM)

  9         Of which: other CCR

 10     Credit valuation adjustment (CVA)



      Equity positions under the simple risk weight approach
 11
      and the internal model method

 12   Equity investments in funds - look-through approach

 13   Equity investments in funds - mandate-based approach

 14   Equity investments in funds - fall-back approach

 15   Settlement risk

 16   Securitisation exposures in banking book

         Of which: securitisation internal ratings-based
      approach
 17
         (SEC-IRBA)

         Of which: securitisation external ratings-based
      approach
 18
          (SEC-ERBA), including internal assessment approach
      (IAA)

         Of which: securitisation standardised approach
 19
      (SEC-SA)

 20   Market risk

 21      Of which: standardised approach

 22      Of which: internal models approach (IMA)

 23   Operational risk

      Amounts below the thresholds for deduction (subject
 24
      to 250% risk weight)

 25   Floor adjustment

      Total (1 + 6 + 10 + 11 + 12 + 13 + 14 + 15 + 16 + 20
 26
      + 23 + 24 + 25)




Definitions and instructions

RWA: risk-weighted assets according to the Basel framework and as reported in accordance with
the subsequent parts of this standard. Where the regulatory framework does not refer to RWA
but directly to capital charges (eg for market risk and operational risk), banks should indicate the
derived RWA number (ie by multiplying capital charge by 12.5).

RWA (T-1): risk-weighted assets as reported in the previous Pillar 3 report (ie at the end of the
previous quarter).

Minimum capital requirement T: Pillar 1 capital requirements at the reporting date. This will
normally be RWA * 8% but may differ if a floor is applicable or adjustments (such as scaling factors)
are applied at jurisdiction level.

Row
           Explanation
number

           Credit risk (excluding counterparty credit risk): RWA and capital requirements according
           to the credit risk framework reported in DIS40; excludes all positions subject to the securitisation regulatory framework, including securitisation exposures in the banking
           book (which are reported in row 16) and capital requirements relating to a counterparty
           credit risk charge, which are reported in row 6.

1          
           Of which: standardised approach: RWA and capital requirements according to the credit risk standardised approach.
2
           

           Of which: (foundation/advanced) internal rating-based approaches: RWA and capital            requirements according to the F-IRB approach and/or A-IRB approach.

3 and 5

           Of which: supervisory slotting approach: RWA and capital requirements according to the supervisory slotting approach.
4
           

           Counterparty credit risk: RWA and capital charges according to the counterparty credit risk framework, as reported in DIS42, excluding CVA as reported in row 10.

6 to 8
           
           Of which: other CCR: RWA and capital charge requirements according to the
9          counterparty credit risk framework, as reported in DIS42, excluding CVA as reported in
           row 10, which do not fall under rows 7 and 8.

10         Credit valuation adjustment: RWA and capital charge requirements according to MAR50.

           Equity positions under the simple risk weight approach and the internal model method:
           the amounts in row 11 correspond to RWA where the bank applies the simple risk
           weight approach or the internal model method. The RWA for equity positions under the  simple risk weight approach are included in Template CR10 in DIS40. Where the
           regulatory treatment of equities is in accordance with the standardised approach, the
           corresponding RWA are reported in Template CR4 in DIS40 and included in row 2 of this
           template.
11        


12         Equity investments in funds - look-through approach: RWA and capital requirements
           calculated in accordance with CRE60.

           Equity investments in funds - mandate-based approach: RWA and capital requirements calculated in accordance with CRE60
13
           

           Equity investments in funds - fall-back approach: RWA and capital requirements calculated in accordance with CRE60.
14
           

15         Settlement risk: the amounts correspond to the requirements in CRE70

           Securitisation exposures in banking book: the amounts correspond to capital
           requirements applicable to the securitisation exposures in CRE40. The RWA amounts must be derived from the capital requirements (which includes the impact of the cap in
           accordance with CRE40.50 to CRE40.55, and do not systematically correspond to RWA
           reported in Templates SEC3 and SEC4, which are before application of the cap).

16 to 19   
           Market risk: the amounts reported in row 20 correspond to the RWA and capital
           requirements in DIS50. They also include capital charges for securitisation positions booked in the trading book but exclude the counterparty credit risk capital charges
           (reported in DIS42 and row 6 of this template). The RWA for market risk correspond to
           the capital charge times 12.5.

20         
           Of which: standardised approach: RWA and capital requirements according to the market risk standardised approach. including capital requirements for securitisation positions
           booked in the trading book
21         

           Of which: internal models approach: RWA and capital requirements according to the  market risk IMA.
22
          

           Operational risk: the amounts corresponding to the Pillar 1 requirements in the Basel framework.
23
           

           Amounts below the thresholds for deduction (subject to 250% risk weight): the amounts
           correspond to items subject to a 250% risk weight according to CAP30.34. It includes significant investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are
           outside the scope of regulatory consolidation and below the threshold for deduction,
           after application of the 250% risk weight.

24         
           Floor adjustment: this row must be used to disclose the impact of any Pillar 1 floor
           adjustment (eg a Basel I floor) on total RWA and total capital so that the total row
           reflects the total RWA and total capital requirements, including such an adjustment.
25
           Pillar 2 adjustments applied do not need to be disclosed here. Floors or adjustments
           applied at a more granular level (eg at risk category level) must be reflected in the
           capital requirements reported for this risk category.




Linkages across templates

Amount in [OV1:2/a] is equal to [CR4:14/e]

Amount in [OV1:3/a] and [OV1:5/a] is equal to the sum of [CR6: Total (all portfolios)/i] + [CR10:
Specialised lending total RWA for HVCRE and other than HVCRE]

Amount in [OV1:6/a] is equal to the sum of [CCR1:6/f+CCR8:1/b+CCR8:11/b].



                                 DIS25
                                 Composition of capital and
                                 TLAC
                                 The disclosures described in this chapter cover
                                 the composition of regulatory capital, the main
                                 features of regulatory capital instruments and,
                                 for global systemically important banks, the
                                 composition of total loss-absorbing capacity and
                                 the creditor hierarchies of material subgroups
                                 and resolution entities.


                                 Introduction
25.1   The disclosure requirements set out in this chapter are:

       (1) Table CCA – Main features of regulatory capital instruments and of other
           total loss-absorbing capacity (TLAC) - eligible instruments

       (2) Template CC1 – Composition of regulatory capital

       (3) Template CC2 – Reconciliation of regulatory capital to balance sheet

       (4) Template TLAC1 – TLAC composition for global systemically important banks
           (G-SIBs) (at resolution group level)

       (5) Template TLAC2 – Material subgroup entity – creditor ranking at legal entity
           level

       (6) Template TLAC3 – Resolution entity – creditor ranking at legal entity level

25.2   The following table and templates must be completed by all banks:

       (1) Table CCA details the main features of a bank’s regulatory capital
           instruments and other TLAC-eligible instruments, where applicable. This
           table should be posted on a bank’s website, with the web link referenced in
           the bank’s Pillar 3 report to facilitate users’ access to the required disclosure.
           Table CCA represents the minimum level of disclosure that banks are
           required to report in respect of each regulatory capital instrument and,
           where applicable, other TLAC-eligible instruments issued.

       (2) Template CC1 details the composition of a bank’s regulatory capital.

       (3) Template CC2 provides users of Pillar 3 data with a reconciliation between
           the scope of a bank’s accounting consolidation, as per published financial
           statements, and the scope of its regulatory consolidation.

 In this context, “other TLAC-eligible instruments” are instruments other
                   than regulatory capital instruments issued by G-SIBs that meet the
                   TLAC eligibility criteria.




       FAQ
       FAQ1        For the disclosure requirements under DIS25, in the event a bank
                   restates its prior year accounting balance sheet, does the bank restate
                   the archived prior year reconciliation templates?

                   The requirement to keep an archive of a minimum period also applies
                   to the reconciliation template. As such, any prospective/retrospective
                   restatement of the balance sheet would require similar amendments to
                   be reflected in the reconciliation templates within the archive with a
                   clear indication that such a revision has been made.


25.3   The following additional templates must be completed by banks which have been
       designated as G-SIBs:

       (1) Template TLAC1 provides details of the TLAC positions of G-SIB resolution
           groups. This disclosure requirement applies to all G-SIBs at the resolution
           group level. For single point of entry G-SIBs, there is only one resolution
           group. This means that they only need to complete Template TLAC1 once to
           report their TLAC positions.

       (2) Templates TLAC2 and TLAC3 present information on creditor rankings at the
           legal entity level for material subgroup entities (ie entities that are part of a
           material subgroup) which have issued internal TLAC to one or more
           resolution entities, and also for resolution entities. These templates provide
           information on the amount and residual maturity of TLAC and on the
           instruments issued by resolution entities and material subgroup entities that
           rank pari passu with, or junior to, TLAC instruments.

25.4   Templates TLAC1, TLAC2 and TLAC3 become effective from the TLAC
       conformance date.

25.5   Through the following three-step approach, all banks are required to show the
       link between the balance sheet in their published financial statements and the
       numbers disclosed in Template CC1:



     (1) Step 1: Disclose the reported balance sheet under the regulatory scope of
         consolidation in Template CC2. If the scopes of regulatory consolidation and
         accounting consolidation are identical for a particular banking group, banks
         should state in Template CC2 that there is no difference and move on to
         Step 2. Where the accounting and regulatory scopes of consolidation differ,
         banks are required to disclose the list of those legal entities that are included
         within the accounting scope of consolidation, but excluded from the
         regulatory scope of consolidation or, alternatively, any legal entities included
         in the regulatory consolidation that are not included in the accounting scope
         of consolidation. This will enable users of Pillar 3 data to consider any risks
         posed by unconsolidated subsidiaries. If some entities are included in both
         the regulatory and accounting scopes of consolidation, but the method of
         consolidation differs between these two scopes, banks are required to list
         the relevant legal entities separately and explain the differences in the
         consolidation methods. For each legal entity that is required to be disclosed
         in this requirement, a bank must also disclose the total assets and equity on
         the entity’s balance sheet and a description of the entity’s principal activities.

     (2) Step 2: Expand the lines of the balance sheet under the regulatory scope of
         consolidation in Template CC2 to display all of the components that are
         used in Template CC1. It should be noted that banks will only need to
         expand elements of the balance sheet to the extent necessary to determine
         the components that are used in Template CC1 (eg if all of the paid-in
         capital of the bank meets the requirements to be included in Common
         Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital, the bank would not need to expand this line).
         The level of disclosure should be proportionate to the complexity of the
         bank’s balance sheet and its capital structure.

     (3) Step 3: Map each of the components that are disclosed in Template CC2 in
         Step 2 to the composition of capital disclosure set out in Template CC1.




Table CCA - Main features of regulatory capital instruments and of
other TLAC-eligible instruments




Purpose: Provide a description of the main features of a bank's regulatory capital instruments and
other TLAC-eligible instruments, as applicable, that are recognised as part of its capital base / TLAC
resources.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks. In addition to completing the
template for all regulatory capital instruments, G-SIB resolution entities should complete the
template (including lines 3a and 34a) for all other TLAC-eligible instruments that are recognised as
external TLAC resources by the resolution entities, starting from the TLAC conformance date.
Internal TLAC instruments and other senior debt instruments are not covered in this template.

Content: Quantitative and qualitative information as required.

Frequency: Table CCA should be posted on a bank's website. It should be updated whenever the
bank issues or repays a capital instrument (or other TLAC-eligible instrument where applicable), and
whenever there is a redemption, conversion/writedown or other material change in the nature of an
existing instrument. Updates should, at a minimum, be made semiannually. Banks should include
the web link in each Pillar 3 report to the issuances made over the previous period.

Format: Flexible.

Accompanying information: Banks are required to make available on their websites the full terms
and conditions of all instruments included in regulatory capital and TLAC.

                                                                                         a

                                                                                  Quantitative /
                                                                                    qualitative
                                                                                   information

1       Issuer

2       Unique identifier (eg Committee on Uniform Security
        Identification Procedures (CUSIP), International Securities
        Identification Number (ISIN) or Bloomberg identifier for private
        placement)

3       Governing law(s) of the instrument

3a      Means by which enforceability requirement of Section 13 of the
        TLAC Term Sheet is achieved (for other TLAC-eligible
        instruments governed by foreign law)

4       Transitional Basel III rules

5       Post-transitional Basel III rules

6       Eligible at solo/group/group and solo

7       Instrument type (types to be specified by each jurisdiction)


8     Amount recognised in regulatory capital (currency in millions, as
      of most recent reporting date)

9     Par value of instrument

10    Accounting classification

11    Original date of issuance

12    Perpetual or dated

13    Original maturity date

14    Issuer call subject to prior supervisory approval

15    Optional call date, contingent call dates and redemption amount

16    Subsequent call dates, if applicable

      Coupons / dividends

17    Fixed or floating dividend/coupon

18    Coupon rate and any related index

19    Existence of a dividend stopper

20    Fully discretionary, partially discretionary or mandatory

21    Existence of step-up or other incentive to redeem

22    Non-cumulative or cumulative

23    Convertible or non-convertible

24    If convertible, conversion trigger(s)

25    If convertible, fully or partially

26    If convertible, conversion rate

27    If convertible, mandatory or optional conversion

28    If convertible, specify instrument type convertible into

29    If convertible, specify issuer of instrument it converts into
30       Writedown feature

31       If writedown, writedown trigger(s)

32       If writedown, full or partial

33       If writedown, permanent or temporary

34       If temporary write-down, description of writeup mechanism

34a      Type of subordination

35       Position in subordination hierarchy in liquidation (specify
         instrument type immediately senior to instrument in the
         insolvency creditor hierarchy of the legal entity concerned).

36       Non-compliant transitioned features

37       If yes, specify non-compliant features


Instructions

Banks are required to complete the template for each outstanding regulatory capital instrument
and, in the case of G-SIBs, TLAC-eligible instruments (banks should insert "NA" if the question is
not applicable).

Banks are required to report each instrument, including common shares, in a separate column of
the template, such that the completed Table CCA would provide a "main features report" that
summarises all of the regulatory capital and TLAC-eligible instruments of the banking group. G-SIBs
disclosing these instruments should group them under three sections (horizontally along the table)
to indicate whether they are for meeting (i) only capital (but not TLAC) requirements; (ii) both
capital and TLAC requirements; or (iii) only TLAC (but not capital) requirements.

The list of main features represents a minimum level of required summary disclosure. In
implementing this minimum requirement, each national authority is encouraged to add to this list if
there are features that it deems important to disclose in the context of the banks they supervise.


Row                                                                     Format / list of options
           Explanation                                                  (where relevant)
number

1          Identifies issuer legal entity.                              Free text

2          Unique identifier (eg CUSIP, ISIN or Bloomberg identifier for private placement).   Free text
           

3          Specifies the governing law(s) of the instrument.            Free text



3a     Other TLAC-eligible instruments governed by foreign law         Disclosure: [Contractual]
       (ie a law other than that of the home jurisdiction of a resolution entity) include a clause in the contractual
       provisions whereby investors expressly submit to, and
       provide consent to the application of, the use of resolution
       tools in relation to the instrument by the home authority
       notwithstanding any provision of foreign law to the
       contrary, unless there is equivalent binding statutory
       provision for cross-border recognition of resolution actions.
       Select "NA" where the governing law of the instrument is
       the same as that of the country of incorporation of the
       resolution entity.        [Statutory] [NA]
       

4      Specifies the regulatory capital treatment during the Basel III transitional phase (ie the component of capital from  which the instrument is being phased out).                 Disclosure:      [Common
           Equity Tier 1] [Additional
             Tier 1] [Tier 2]

5      Specifies regulatory capital treatment under Basel III rules not taking into account transitional treatment.      Disclosure:         [Common
                     Equity Tier 1] [Additional
                                                                       Tier 1] [Tier 2] [Ineligible]

6      Specifies the level(s) within the group at which the  instrument is included in capital.                   Disclosure: [Solo] [Group]
                             [Solo and Group]

7      Specifies instrument type, varying by jurisdiction. Helps provide more granular understanding of features,   particularly during transition.              Disclosure: Options to be
                 provided to banks by
                                   each jurisdiction

8      Specifies amount recognised in regulatory capital.              Free text

9      Par value of instrument.                                        Free text

10     Specifies accounting classification. Helps to assess loss-absorbency.                 Disclosure: [Shareholders'
                                               equity]     [Liability     -
                                                                       amortised cost] [Liability -
                                                                       fair value option] [Non-
                                                                       controlling interest in
                                                                       consolidated subsidiary]

11     Specifies date of issuance.                                     Free text

12     Specifies whether dated or perpetual.                           Disclosure:     [Perpetual]
                                                                       [Dated]

13     For dated instrument, specifies original maturity date (day,month and year). For perpetual instrument, enter "no
       maturity".    Free text
       

14     Specifies whether there is an issuer call option.               Disclosure: [Yes] [No]


15     For instrument with issuer call option, specifies: (i) the first date of call if the instrument has a call option on a specific
       date (day, month and year); (ii) the instrument has a tax and
       /or regulatory event call; and (iii) the redemption price.   Free text
       

16     Specifies the existence and frequency of subsequent call dates, if applicable.         Free text
     

17     Specifies whether the coupon/dividend is fixed over the life of the instrument, floating over the life of the instrument,   currently fixed but will move to a floating rate in the future,   or currently floating but will move to a fixed rate in the future.    [      Disclosure:       [Fixed],
       Floating]   [Fixed    to
         floating], [Floating to
              fixed]
  

18     Specifies the coupon rate of the instrument and any related    index that the coupon/dividend rate references.     Free text
      

19     Specifies whether the non-payment of a coupon or  dividend on the instrument prohibits the payment of
       dividends on common shares (ie whether there is a
       dividend-stopper).                  Disclosure: [Yes] [No]
      

20     Specifies whether the issuer has full, partial or no discretion over whether a coupon/dividend is paid. If the bank has full  discretion to cancel coupon/dividend payments under all     circumstances, it must select "fully discretionary" (including
       when there is a dividend-stopper that does not have the
       effect of preventing the bank from cancelling payments on
       the instrument). If there are conditions that must be met
       before payment can be cancelled (eg capital below a
       certain threshold), the bank must select "partially
       discretionary". If the bank is unable to cancel the payment
       outside of insolvency, the bank must select "mandatory".
    Disclosure:          [Fully
       discretionary]    [Partially
                  discretionary] [Mandatory]
       
21     Specifies whether there is a step-up or other incentive to  redeem.         Disclosure: [Yes] [No]
      

22     Specifies whether dividends/coupons are cumulative or    non-cumulative.                  Disclosure:        [Non-
                                                   cumulative] [Cumulative]

23     Specifies whether the instrument is convertible.                   Disclosure: [Convertible]
                                                                          [Non-convertible]

24     Specifies the conditions under which the instrument will convert, including point of non-viability. Where one or
       more authorities have the ability to trigger conversion, the
       authorities should be listed. For each of the authorities it
       should be stated whether the legal basis for the authority
       to trigger conversion is provided by the terms of the contract of the instrument (a contractual approach) or
       statutory means (a statutory approach).
           Free text
       

       

25     For conversion trigger separately, specifies whether the referencing one    options above         Free text
       instrument will: (i) always convert fully; (ii) may convert fully   of the 
       or partially; or (iii) will always convert partially.

26     Specifies the rate of conversion into the more loss-absorbent instrument.               Free text
       

27     For convertible instruments, specifies whether conversion is mandatory or optional.                  Disclosure: [Mandatory]
                                           [Optional] [NA]

28     For convertible instruments, specifies the instrument type it  is convertible into.              Disclosure:        [Common
                                              Equity Tier 1] [Additional
                                                                           Tier 1] [Tier 2] [Other]

29     If convertible, specifies the issuer of the instrument into  which it converts.       Free text
       

30     Specifies whether there is a writedown feature.                     Disclosure: [Yes] [No]

31     Specifies the trigger at which writedown occurs, including point of non-viability. Where one or more authorities have
       the ability to trigger writedown, the authorities should be
       listed. For each of the authorities it should be stated
       whether the legal basis for the authority to trigger
       conversion is provided by the terms of the contract of the
       instrument (a contractual approach) or statutory means (a
       statutory approach).          Free text
       

32     For each writedown trigger separately, specifies whether  referencing one  of the options above         Free text 
       the instrument will: (i) always be written down fully; (ii) may     
       be written down partially; or (iii) will always be written
       
down partially.
33     For writedown instruments, specifies whether writedown is   permanent or temporary.           Disclosure: [Permanent]
                                                 [Temporary] [NA]

34     For instruments that have a temporary writedown,    description of writeup mechanism.                Free text
       

34a    Type of subordination.                                              Disclosure:    [Structural]
                                                                           [Statutory] [Contractual]
                                                                           [Exemption           from
                                                                           subordination]

35     Specifies instrument to which it is most immediately subordinate. Where applicable, banks should specify the    column numbers of the instruments in the completed main
       features template to which the instrument is most
       immediately subordinate. In the case of structural
       subordination, "NA" should be entered.             Free text
       

      

36     Specifies whether there are non-compliant features.          Disclosure: [Yes] [No]

37     If there are non-compliant features, specifies which ones.   Free text



Template CC1 - Composition of regulatory capital




Purpose: Provide a breakdown of the constituent elements of a bank's capital.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks at the consolidated level.

Content: Breakdown of regulatory capital according to the scope of regulatory consolidation

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant changes over the reporting period and the key drivers of
such change.

                                                                            a               b

                                                                                          Source
                                                                                        based on
                                                                                        reference
                                                                                         numbers
                                                                                       /letters of
                                                                        Amounts       the balance
                                                                                      sheet under
                                                                                           the
                                                                                       regulatory
                                                                                         scope of
                                                                                     consolidation

      Common Equity Tier 1 capital: instruments and reserves

      Directly issued qualifying common share (and equivalent for non-joint stock companies) capital plus related stock surplus                          h
1
      

2     Retained earnings

      Accumulated other comprehensive income (and other reserves)
3
      

      Directly issued capital subject to phase-out from CET1 capital (only applicable to non-joint stock companies)

      Common share capital issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties (amount allowed in group CET1 capital)
4
      
5
      

      Common Equity Tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments

6
     
      Common Equity Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments

7     Prudent valuation adjustments

8     Goodwill (net of related tax liability)                                          a minus d

                                                                                       b minus e

9    Other intangibles other than mortgage servicing rights (MSR)
     (net of related tax liability)

     Deferred tax assets (DTA) that rely on future profitability, excluding those arising from temporary differences (net of
     related tax liability)

10   
11   Cash flow hedge reserve

12   Shortfall of provisions to expected losses

13   Securitisation gain on sale (as set out in CAP30.14)

     Gains and losses due to changes in own credit risk on fair  valued liabilities
14
    

15   Defined benefit pension fund net assets

     Investments in own shares (if not already subtracted from paid-in capital on reported balance sheet)
16
     

17   Reciprocal cross-holdings in common equity

     Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance
     entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10%
     of the issued share capital (amount above 10% threshold)
18
     

     Significant investments in the common stock of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of
     regulatory consolidation (amount above 10% threshold)
19   

                                                                        c minus f
20   MSR (amount above 10% threshold)                                   minus 10%
                                                                         threshold

     DTA arising from temporary differences (amount above 10% threshold, net of related tax liability)
21
     

22   Amount exceeding the 15% threshold

         Of which: significant investments in the common stock of  financials
23
    

24      Of which: MSR

25      Of which: DTA arising from temporary differences

26   National specific regulatory adjustments

     Regulatory adjustments applied to Common Equity Tier 1 capital due to insufficient Additional Tier 1 and Tier 2 capital
     to cover deductions
27   




28   Total regulatory adjustments to Common Equity Tier 1
     capital

29   Common Equity Tier 1 capital (CET1)

     Additional Tier 1 capital: instruments

     Directly issued qualifying additional Tier 1 instruments plus related stock surplus      i
30
     

        Of which: classified as equity under applicable accounting standards
31
     

        Of which: classified as liabilities under applicable accounting standards
32
     

     Directly issued capital instruments subject to phase-out from additional Tier 1 capital
33
     

     Additional Tier 1 instruments (and CET1 instruments not included in row 5) issued by subsidiaries and held by third
     parties (amount allowed in group additional Tier 1 capital)
34   

        Of which: instruments issued by subsidiaries subject to  phase-out
35
    

36   Additional Tier 1 capital before regulatory adjustments

     Additional Tier 1 capital: regulatory adjustments

37   Investments in own additional Tier 1 instruments

38   Reciprocal cross-holdings in additional Tier 1 instruments

     Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance
     entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not own more than 10%
     of the issued common share capital of the entity (amount
     above 10% threshold)

39   
     Significant investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory
     consolidation
40   

41   National specific regulatory adjustments

     Regulatory adjustments applied to additional Tier 1 capital  due to insufficient Tier 2 capital to cover deductions
42
    

43   Total regulatory adjustments to additional Tier 1 capital

44   Additional Tier 1 capital (AT1)
45    Tier 1 capital (T1 = CET1 + AT1)

      Tier 2 capital: instruments and provisions

      Directly issued qualifying Tier 2 instruments plus related stock surplus
46
      

      Directly issued capital instruments subject to phase-out from Tier 2 capital
47
      

      Tier 2 instruments (and CET1 and AT1 instruments not included in rows 5 or 34) issued by subsidiaries and held by
      third parties (amount allowed in group Tier 2)

48    
         Of which: instruments issued by subsidiaries subject to  phase-out
49 
     

50    Provisions

51    Tier 2 capital before regulatory adjustments

      Tier 2 capital: regulatory adjustments

52    Investments in own Tier 2 instruments

      Reciprocal cross-holdings in Tier 2 instruments and other
53
      TLAC liabilities

      Investments in the capital and other TLAC liabilities of
      banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, where the bank does not
      own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of
      the entity (amount above 10% threshold)

54    
      Investments in the other TLAC liabilities of banking, financial
      and insurance entities that are outside the scope of
      regulatory consolidation and where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the
      entity: amount previously designated for the 5% threshold
      but that no longer meets the conditions (for G-SIBs only)

54a
      
      Significant investments in the capital and other TLAC
      liabilities of banking, financial and insurance entities that are
outside the scope of regulatory consolidation (net of eligible
      short positions)
55
      

56    National specific regulatory adjustments

57    Total regulatory adjustments to Tier 2 capital

58    Tier 2 capital

59    Total regulatory capital (= Tier 1 + Tier2)

60   Total risk-weighted assets

     Capital adequacy ratios and buffers

     Common Equity Tier 1 capital (as a percentage of risk-weighted assets)
61
     

62   Tier 1 capital (as a percentage of risk-weighted assets)

63   Total capital (as a percentage of risk-weighted assets)

     Institution-specific   buffer     requirement      (capital
     conservation buffer plus countercyclical buffer
requirements plus higher loss absorbency requirement,
     expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets)
64
     

65      Of which: capital conservation buffer requirement

66      Of which: bank-specific countercyclical buffer requirement

67      Of which: higher loss absorbency requirement

     Common Equity Tier 1 capital (as a percentage of risk-weighted assets) available after meeting the bank's
     minimum capital requirements

68   
     National minima (if different from Basel III)

     National minimum Common Equity Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio (if different from Basel III minimum)

69
     
     National minimum Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio (if different from Basel III minimum)
70
     

     National minimum Total capital adequacy ratio (if different from Basel III minimum)
71
     

     Amounts below the thresholds for deduction (before risk-
     weighting)

     Non-significant investments in the capital and other TLAC liabilities of other financial entities
72
     

     Significant investments in the common stock of financial entities
73
     

74   MSR (net of related tax liability)

     DTA arising from temporary differences (net of related tax  liability)
75 
    

     Applicable caps on the inclusion of provisions in Tier 2
     capital       Provisions eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 capital in respect of exposures subject to standardised approach (prior to
       application of cap)
76     

       Cap on inclusion of provisions in Tier 2 capital under  standardised approach
77
      

       Provisions eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 capital in respect of
78     exposures subject to internal ratings-based approach (prior
       to application of cap)

       Cap for inclusion of provisions in Tier 2 capital under internal ratings-based approach
79
       

       Capital instruments subject to phase-out arrangements
       (only applicable between 1 Jan 2018 and 1 Jan 2022)

       Current cap on CET1 instruments subject to phase-out  arrangements
80
      

       Amount excluded from CET1 capital due to cap (excess over  cap after redemptions and maturities)
81
      

       Current cap on AT1 instruments subject to phase-out   arrangements
82
     

       Amount excluded from AT1 capital due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and maturities)
83
       

       Current cap on Tier 2 instruments subject to phase-out  arrangements
84
      

       Amount excluded from Tier 2 capital due to cap (excess over  cap after redemptions and maturities)
85
      

Instructions

(i) Rows in italics will be deleted after all the ineligible capital instruments have been fully phased
     out (ie from 1 January 2022 onwards).

(ii) The reconciliation requirements included in Template CC2 result in the decomposition of certain
      regulatory adjustments. For example, the disclosure template below includes the adjustment
      "Goodwill net of related tax liability". The reconciliation requirements will lead to the disclosure
      of both the goodwill component and the related tax liability component of this regulatory
      adjustment.

(iii) Shading:

     - Each dark grey row introduces a new section detailing a certain component of regulatory
          capital.

     - Light grey rows with no thick border represent the sum cells in the relevant section.
       - Light grey rows with a thick border show the main components of regulatory capital and the
             capital adequacy ratios.

Columns

Source: Banks are required to complete column b to show the source of every major input, which is
to be cross-referenced to the corresponding rows in Template CC2.

Rows

Set out in the following table is an explanation of each row of the template above. Regarding the
regulatory adjustments, banks are required to report deductions from capital as positive numbers
and additions to capital as negative numbers. For example, goodwill (row 8) should be reported as
a positive number, as should gains due to the change in the own credit risk of the bank (row 14).
However, losses due to the change in the own credit risk of the bank should be reported as a
negative number as these are added back in the calculation of CET1 capital.

Row
                                                  Explanation
number

            Instruments issued by the parent company of the reporting group that meet all of the
            CET1 capital entry criteria set out in CAP10.8. This should be equal to the sum of
            common stock (and related surplus only) and other instruments for non-joint stock
   1        companies, both of which must meet the common stock criteria. This should be net of
            treasury stock and other investments in own shares to the extent that these are already
            derecognised on the balance sheet under the relevant accounting standards. Other paid-
            in capital elements must be excluded. All minority interest must be excluded.

            Retained earnings, prior to all regulatory adjustments. In accordance with CAP10.6 and
            CAP10.7, this row should include interim profit and loss that has met any audit,
            verification or review procedures that the supervisory authority has put in place.
   2
            Dividends are to be removed in accordance with the applicable accounting standards, ie
            they should be removed from this row when they are removed from the balance sheet of
            the bank.

            Accumulated other comprehensive income and other disclosed reserves, prior to all regulatory adjustments.
   3
            

            Directly issued capital instruments subject to phase-out from CET1 capital in accordance with the requirements of CAP90.4. This is only applicable to non-joint stock companies.
   4        
            Banks structured as joint stock companies must report zero in this row.

            Common share capital issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties. Only the amount
            that is eligible for inclusion in group CET1 capital should be reported here, as  determined by the application of CAP10.20 and CAP10.21 (see CAP99.1 to CAP99.7 for
            an example of the calculation).
   5
           

   6        Sum of rows 1 to 5.

            Prudent valuation adjustments according to the requirements of CAP50.11 to CAP50.14, taking into account the guidance set out in Supervisory guidance for assessing banks'
            financial instrument fair value practices, April 2009 (in particular Principle 10).
   7        

  8    Goodwill net of related tax liability, as set out in CAP30.7 and CAP30.8.

       Other intangibles other than MSR (net of related tax liability), as set out in CAP30.7 and CAP30.8.
  9
       

       DTA that rely on future profitability excluding those arising from temporary differences  (net of related tax liability), as set out in CAP30.9.

 10
      
 11    The element of the cash flow hedge reserve described in CAP30.11 and CAP30.12.

 12    Shortfall of provisions to expected losses as described in CAP30.13.

 13    Securitisation gain on sale (as set out in CAP30.14).

       Gains and losses due to changes in own credit risk on fair valued liabilities, as described in CAP30.15.
 14
       

       Defined benefit pension fund net assets, the amount to be deducted as set out in CAP30.
 15
       16 and CAP30.17.

       Investments in own shares (if not already subtracted from paid-in capital on reported balance sheet), as set out in CAP30.18 to CAP30.20.
 16
       

 17    Reciprocal cross-holdings in common equity, as set out in CAP30.21.

       Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside
       the scope of regulatory consolidation and where the bank does not own more than 10%  of the issued share capital, net of eligible short positions and amount above 10%
       threshold. Amount to be deducted from CET1 capital calculated in accordance with
       CAP30.22 to CAP30.28.
 18   

       Significant investments in the common stock of banking, financial and insurance entities
       that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of eligible short positions and  amount above 10% threshold. Amount to be deducted from CET1 capital calculated in
       accordance with CAP30.29 to CAP30.33.

 19
      
       MSR (amount above 10% threshold), amount to be deducted from CET1 capital in  accordance with CAP30.32 and CAP30.33.
 20
      

       DTA arising from temporary differences (amount above 10% threshold, net of related tax liability), amount to be deducted from CET1 capital in accordance with CAP30.32 and
       CAP30.33.

 21     
       Total amount by which the three threshold items exceed the 15% threshold, excluding  amounts reported in rows 19-21, calculated in accordance with CAP30.32 and CAP30.33.
 22
      

       The amount reported in row 22 that relates to significant investments in the common  stock of financials.
 23
      

 24    The amount reported in row 22 that relates to MSR.

 25    The amount reported in row 22 that relates to DTA arising from temporary differences.



 26    Any national specific regulatory adjustments that national authorities require to be
       applied to CET1 capital in addition to the Basel III minimum set of adjustments. Guidance
       should be sought from national supervisors.

       Regulatory adjustments applied to CET1 capital due to insufficient AT1 capital to cover deductions. If the amount reported in row 43 exceeds the amount reported in row 36,
       the excess is to be reported here.
 27    

       Total regulatory adjustments to CET1 capital, to be calculated as the sum of rows 7-22  plus rows 26-7.
 28
      

 29    CET1 capital, to be calculated as row 6 minus row 28.

       Instruments issued by the parent company of the reporting group that meet all of the
       AT1 capital entry criteria set out in CAP10.11 and any related stock surplus as set out in CAP10.13. All instruments issued by subsidiaries of the consolidated group should be
       excluded from this row. This row may include AT1 capital issued by an SPV of the parent
       company only if it meets the requirements set out in CAP10.26.

 30    
 31    The amount in row 30 classified as equity under applicable accounting standards.

 32    The amount in row 30 classified as liabilities under applicable accounting standards.

       Directly issued capital instruments subject to phase-out from AT1 capital in accordance with the requirements of CAP90.1 to CAP90.3.
 33
       

       AT1 instruments (and CET1 instruments not included in row 5) issued by subsidiaries and held by third parties, the amount allowed in group AT1 capital in accordance with CAP10.
       22 and CAP10.23.
 34    

       The amount reported in row 34 that relates to instruments subject to phase-out from  AT1 capital in accordance with the requirements of CAP90.1 to CAP90.3.
 35
      

 36    The sum of rows 30, 33 and 34.

       Investments in own AT1 instruments, amount to be deducted from AT1 capital in accordance with CAP30.18 to CAP30.20.
 37
       

       Reciprocal cross-holdings in AT1 instruments, amount to be deducted from AT1 capital in accordance with CAP30.21
 38
       

       Investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside
       the scope of regulatory consolidation and where the bank does not own more than 10%  of the issued common share capital of the entity, net of eligible short positions and
       amount above 10% threshold. Amount to be deducted from AT1 capital calculated in
       accordance with CAP30.22 to CAP30.28.
 39   

       Significant investments in the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of eligible short positions. Amount to
       be deducted from AT1 capital in accordance with CAP30.29 and CAP30.30.

 40    

 41    Any national specific regulatory adjustments that national authorities require to be
       applied to AT1 capital in addition to the Basel III minimum set of adjustments. Guidance
       should be sought from national supervisors.

       Regulatory adjustments applied to AT1 capital due to insufficient Tier 2 capital to cover deductions. If the amount reported in row 57 exceeds the amount reported in row 51,
       the excess is to be reported here.

 42    
 43    The sum of rows 37-42.

 44    AT1 capital, to be calculated as row 36 minus row 43.

 45    Tier 1 capital, to be calculated as row 29 plus row 44.

       Instruments issued by the parent company of the reporting group that meet all of the
       Tier 2 capital criteria set out in CAP10.16 and any related stock surplus as set out in  CAP10.17. All instruments issued by subsidiaries of the consolidated group should be
       excluded from this row. This row may include Tier 2 capital issued by an SPV of the
       parent company only if it meets the requirements set out in CAP10.26.

 46   
       Directly issued capital instruments subject to phase-out from Tier 2 capital in accordance  with the requirements of CAP90.1 to CAP90.3.
 47
      

       Tier 2 instruments (and CET1 and AT1 instruments not included in rows 5 or 34) issued  by subsidiaries and held by third parties (amount allowed in group Tier 2 capital), in
       accordance with CAP10.24 and CAP10.25.
 48   

       The amount reported in row 48 that relates to instruments subject to phase-out from Tier 2 capital in accordance with the requirements of CAP90.1 to CAP90.3.
 49
       

       Provisions included in Tier 2 capital, calculated in accordance with CAP10.18 and CAP10.
 50
       19.

 51    The sum of rows 46-8 and row 50.

       Investments in own Tier 2 instruments, amount to be deducted from Tier 2 capital in accordance with CAP30.18 to CAP30.20.
 52
       

       Reciprocal cross-holdings in Tier 2 capital instruments and other TLAC liabilities, amount to be deducted from Tier 2 capital in accordance with CAP30.21.
 53 
       

       Investments in the capital instruments and other TLAC liabilities of banking, financial and
       insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation, net of eligible
       short positions, where the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common
       share capital of the entity: amount in excess of the 10% threshold that is to be deducted from Tier 2 capital in accordance with CAP30.22 to CAP30.28. For non-G-SIBs, any
       amount reported in this row will reflect other TLAC liabilities not covered by the 5%
       threshold and that cannot be absorbed by the 10% threshold. For G-SIBs, the 5%
       threshold is subject to additional conditions; deductions in excess of the 5% threshold
       are reported instead in 54a.
 54    

       (This row is for G-SIBs only.) Investments in other TLAC liabilities of banking, financial
       and insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation and where
       the bank does not own more than 10% of the issued common share capital of the entity,
       previously designated for the 5% threshold but no longer meeting the conditions under
       paragraph 80a of the TLAC holdings standard, measured on a gross long basis. The amount to be deducted will be the amount of other TLAC liabilities designated to the 5%
       threshold but not sold within 30 business days, no longer held in the trading book or
       now exceeding the 5% threshold (eg in the instance of decreasing CET1 capital). Note
       that, for G-SIBs, amounts designated to this threshold may not subsequently be moved
       to the 10% threshold. This row does not apply to non-G-SIBs, to whom these conditions
       on the use of the 5% threshold do not apply.

 54a   
       Significant investments in the capital and other TLAC liabilities of banking, financial and
       insurance entities that are outside the scope of regulatory consolidation (net of eligible  short positions), amount to be deducted from Tier 2 capital in accordance with CAP30.29
       and CAP30.30.
 55
      

       Any national specific regulatory adjustments that national authorities require to be applied to Tier 2 capital in addition to the Basel III minimum set of adjustments.
 56    
       Guidance should be sought from national supervisors.

 57    The sum of rows 52-6.

 58    Tier 2 capital, to be calculated as row 51 minus row 57.

 59    Total capital, to be calculated as row 45 plus row 58.

 60    Total risk-weighted assets of the reporting group.

       CET1 capital adequacy ratio (as a percentage of risk-weighted assets), to be calculated as  row 29 divided by row 60 (expressed as a percentage).
 61
      

       Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio (as a percentage of risk-weighted assets), to be calculated  as row 45 divided by row 60 (expressed as a percentage).
 62
      

       Total capital adequacy ratio (as a percentage of risk-weighted assets), to be calculated as row 59 divided by row 60 (expressed as a percentage).
 63
       

       Bank-specific buffer requirement (capital conservation buffer plus countercyclical buffer
       requirements plus higher loss absorbency requirement, expressed as a percentage of  risk-weighted assets). If an MPE G-SIB resolution entity is not subject to a buffer
       requirement at that scope of consolidation, then it should enter zero.

 64
      
       The amount in row 64 (expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets) that relates to
 65
       the capital conservation buffer, ie banks will report 2.5% here.

       The amount in row 64 (expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets) that relates to  the bank-specific countercyclical buffer requirement.
 66
      

       The amount in row 64 (expressed as a percentage of risk-weighted assets) that relates to  the bank's higher loss absorbency requirement, if applicable.
 67
      

       CET1 capital (as a percentage of risk-weighted assets) available after meeting the bank's
       minimum capital requirements. To be calculated as the CET1 capital adequacy ratio of
       the bank (row 61) less the ratio of RWA of any common equity used to meet the bank's minimum CET1, Tier 1 and Total capital requirements. For example, suppose a bank has 100 RWA, 10 CET1 capital, 1.5 additional Tier 1 capital and no Tier 2 capital. Since it does
       not have any Tier 2 capital, it will have to earmark its CET1 capital to meet the 8%
       minimum capital requirement. The net CET1 capital left to meet other requirements
       (which could include Pillar 2, buffers or TLAC requirements)

 68    
       

       National minimum CET1 capital adequacy ratio (if different from Basel III minimum).
 69
       Guidance should be sought from national supervisors.

       National minimum Tier 1 capital adequacy ratio (if different from Basel III minimum).
 70
       Guidance should be sought from national supervisors.

       National minimum Total capital adequacy ratio (if different from Basel III minimum).
 71
       Guidance should be sought from national supervisors.

       Investments in the capital instruments and other TLAC liabilities of banking, financial and
       (in
       accordance with CAP30.22 to CAP30.28.
 72
       

       Significant investments in the common stock of financial entities, the total amount of  such holdings that are not reported in row 19 and row 23.
 73
      

 74    MSR, the total amount of such holdings that are not reported in row 20 and row 24.

       DTA arising from temporary differences, the total amount of such holdings that are not reported in row 21 and row 25.
 75
       

       Provisions eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 capital in respect of exposures subject to  standardised approach, calculated in accordance with CAP10.18, prior to the application
       of the cap.
 76   

       Cap on inclusion of provisions in Tier 2 capital under the standardised approach,  calculated in accordance with CAP10.18.
 77
      

       Provisions eligible for inclusion in Tier 2 capital in respect of exposures subject to the internal ratings-based approach, calculated in accordance with CAP10.19, prior to the
       application of the cap.
 78    

       Cap on inclusion of provisions in Tier 2 capital under the internal ratings-based approach, calculated in accordance with CAP10.19.
 79
       

 80    Current cap on CET1 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements; see CAP90.4.

       Amount excluded from CET1 capital due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and  maturities); see CAP90.4.
 81
      

       Current cap on AT1 instruments subject to phase-out arrangements; see CAP90.1 to CAP90.3.
 82
       

       Amount excluded from AT1 capital due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and  maturities); see CAP90.1 to CAP90.3.
 83
      


   84     Current cap on Tier 2 capital instruments subject to phase-out arrangements; see CAP90.
          1 to CAP90.3.

          Amount excluded from Tier 2 capital due to cap (excess over cap after redemptions and  maturities); see CAP90.1 to CAP90.3.
   85
         

In general, to ensure that Template CC1 remains comparable across jurisdictions, there should be
no adjustments to the version banks use to disclose their regulatory capital position. However, the
following exceptions apply to take account of language differences and to reduce the reporting of
unnecessary information:

· The template and explanatory table above can be translated by national authorities into the
     relevant national language(s) that implement the Basel standards. The translated version of
     the template will retain all of the rows included in the template.

· For the explanatory table, the national version of the template can reference the national rules
      that implement the relevant sections of Basel III.

· Banks are not permitted to add, delete or change the definitions of any rows from the template
     implemented in their jurisdiction. This is irrespective of the concession allowed in DIS10.23.

· The national version of the template must retain the same row numbering used in the first column
      of the template, such that users of Pillar 3 data can easily map the national version to the
      template. However, the template includes certain rows that reference specific national
      regulatory adjustments (rows 26, 41 and 56). The relevant national authority should insert
      rows after each of these to provide rows for banks to disclose each of the relevant national
      specific adjustments (with the totals reported in rows 26, 41 and 56). The insertion of any rows
      must leave the numbering of the remaining rows unchanged, eg rows detailing national
      specific regulatory adjustments to CET1 could be labelled row 26a, row 26b etc, to ensure that
      the subsequent row numbers are not affected.

· In cases where the national implementation of Basel III applies a more conservative definition of
      an element listed in the template, national authorities may choose between two approaches:

     - Approach 1: in the national version of the template, maintain the same definitions of all rows
          as set out in the template, and require banks to report the impact of the more
          conservative national definition in the designated rows for national specific adjustments
          (ie rows 26, 41 and 56).

     - Approach 2: in the national version of the template, use the definitions of elements as
         implemented in that jurisdiction, clearly labelling them as being different from the Basel
         III minimum definition, and require banks to separately disclose the impact of each of
         these different definitions in the notes to the template.

The aim of both approaches is to provide all the information necessary to enable users of Pillar 3
data to calculate the capital of banks on a common basis.
Template CC2 - Reconciliation of regulatory capital to balance sheet




Purpose: Enable users to identify the differences between the scope of accounting consolidation
and the scope of regulatory consolidation, and to show the link between a bank's balance sheet in
its published financial statements and the numbers that are used in the composition of capital
disclosure template set out in Template CC1.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Carrying values (corresponding to the values reported in financial statements).

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Flexible (but the rows must align with the presentation of the bank's financial report).

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant changes in the expanded balance sheet items over the
reporting period and the key drivers of such change. Narrative commentary to significant changes
in other balance sheet items could be found in Table LIA.

                                                             a                  b                  c
Reference
                                                  
Balance sheet as in published financial
statements
Under regulatory scope of
consolidation
As at period-end
As at period-end
Assets

Cash and balances at central banks

Items in the course of collection from other banks

Trading portfolio assets

Financial assets designated at fair value

Derivative financial instruments

Loans and advances to banks

Loans and advances to customers

Reverse repurchase agreements and other
similar secured lending

Available for sale financial investments

Current and deferred tax assets

Prepayments, accrued income and other assets

Investments in associates and joint ventures

Goodwill and intangible assets

   Of which: goodwill                                    a

   Of which: other intangibles (excluding MSR)           b

   Of which: MSR                                         c

Property, plant and equipment

Total assets

Liabilities

Deposits from banks

Items in the course of collection due to other
banks

Customer accounts

Repurchase agreements and other similar
secured borrowing

Trading portfolio liabilities

Financial liabilities designated at fair value

Derivative financial instruments

Debt securities in issue

Accruals, deferred income and other liabilities

Current and deferred tax liabilities

   Of which: deferred tax liabilities (DTL) related to goodwill
                                                         d


   Of which: DTL related to intangible assets
                                                         e
(excluding MSR)

   Of which: DTL related to MSR                          f

Subordinated liabilities

Provisions

Retirement benefit liabilities

Total liabilities

Shareholders' equity



Paid-in share capital

   Of which: amount eligible for CET1 capital                                                   h

   Of which: amount eligible for AT1 capital                                                    i

Retained earnings

Accumulated other comprehensive income

Total shareholders' equity

Columns

Banks are required to take their balance sheet in their published financial statements (numbers
reported in column a above) and report the numbers when the regulatory scope of consolidation is
applied (numbers reported in column b above)..

If there are rows in the balance sheet under the regulatory scope of consolidation that are not
present in the published financial statements, banks are required to add these and give a value of
zero in column a.

If a bank's scope of accounting consolidation and its scope of regulatory consolidation are exactly
the same, columns a and b should be merged and this fact should be clearly disclosed.

Rows

Similar to Template LI1, the rows in the above template should follow the balance sheet
presentation used by the bank in its financial statements, on which basis the bank is required to
expand the balance sheet to identify all the items that are disclosed in Template CC1. Set out above
(ie items a to i) are some examples of items that may need to be expanded for a particular banking
group. Disclosure should be proportionate to the complexity of the bank's balance sheet. Each item
must be given a reference number/letter in column c that is used as cross-reference to column b of
Template CC1.

Linkages across templates

(i) The amounts in columns a and b in Template CC2 before balance sheet expansion (ie before
     Step 2) should be identical to columns a and b in Template LI1.

(ii) Each expanded item is to be cross-referenced to the corresponding items in Template CC1.


Template TLAC1: TLAC composition for G-SIBs (at resolution group
level)




Purpose: Provide details of the composition of a G-SIB's TLAC.

Scope of application: This template is mandatory for all G-SIBs. It should be completed at the
level of each resolution group within a G-SIB.

Content: Carrying values (corresponding to the values reported in financial statements).

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed.

Accompanying narrative: G-SIBs are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant changes over the reporting period and the key drivers of any
such change(s). Qualitative narrative on the G-SIB resolution strategy, including the approach (SPE
or multiple point of entry (MPE)) and structure to which the resolution measures are applied, may
be included to help understand the templates.

                                                                                               a

                                                                                            Amounts

      Regulatory capital elements of TLAC and adjustments

1     Common Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital

2     Additional Tier 1 (AT1) capital before TLAC adjustments

3         AT1 capital ineligible as TLAC as issued out of subsidiaries to third parties

4         Other adjustments

5     AT1 instruments eligible under the TLAC framework

6     Tier 2 capital before TLAC adjustments

7         Amortised portion of Tier 2 instruments where remaining maturity > 1 year

8         Tier2 capital ineligible as TLAC as issued out of subsidiaries to third parties

9         Other adjustments

10    Tier2 instruments eligible under the TLAC framework

11    TLAC arising from regulatory capital

      Non-regulatory capital elements of TLAC

      External TLAC instruments issued directly by the bank and subordinated to excluded liabilities
12
      

      External TLAC instruments issued directly by the bank which are not subordinated to excluded liabilities but meet all other TLAC Term Sheet
      requirements

13    

14        Of which: amount eligible as TLAC after application of the caps

15    External TLAC instruments issued by funding vehicles prior to 1 January 2022

16    Eligible ex ante commitments to recapitalise a G-SIB in resolution

17    TLAC arising from non-regulatory capital instruments before adjustments

      Non-regulatory capital elements of TLAC: adjustments

18    TLAC before deductions

      Deductions of exposures between MPE resolution groups that correspond to
19
      items eligible for TLAC (not applicable to single point of entry G-SIBs)

20    Deduction of investments in own other TLAC liabilities

21    Other adjustments to TLAC

22    TLAC after deductions

      Risk-weighted assets (RWA) and leverage exposure measure for TLAC
      purposes

23    Total RWA adjusted as permitted under the TLAC regime

24    Leverage exposure measure

      TLAC ratios and buffers

25    TLAC (as a percentage of RWA adjusted as permitted under the TLAC regime)

26    TLAC (as a percentage of leverage exposure)

27    CET1 (as a percentage of RWA) available after meeting the resolution group's
      minimum capital and TLAC requirements

28    Bank-specific buffer requirement (capital conservation buffer plus
      countercyclical buffer requirements plus higher loss-absorbency requirement,
      expressed as a percentage of RWA)

29        Of which: capital conservation buffer requirement

30        Of which: bank-specific countercyclical buffer requirement

31        Of which: higher loss-absorbency requirement

Instructions

For SPE G-SIBs, where the resolution group is the same as the regulatory scope of consolidation for
Basel III regulatory capital, those rows that refer to regulatory capital before adjustments coincide
with information provided under Template CC1. For MPE G-SIBs, information is provided for each
resolution group. Aggregation of capital and total RWA for capital purposes across resolution
groups will not necessarily equal or directly correspond to values reported for regulatory capital
and RWA under Template CC1.

The TLAC position related to the regulatory capital of the resolution group shall include only capital
instruments issued by entities belonging to the resolution group. Similarly, the TLAC position is
based on the RWA (adjusted as permitted under Section 3 of the TLAC Term Sheet) and leverage
ratio exposure measures calculated at the level of the resolution group. Regarding the shading:

      - Each dark grey row introduces a new section detailing a certain component of TLAC.

      - The light grey rows with no thick border represent the sum cells in the relevant section.

      - The light grey rows with a thick border show the main components of TLAC.

The following table explains each row of the above template. Regarding the regulatory
adjustments, banks are required to report deductions from capital or TLAC as positive numbers and
additions to capital or TLAC as negative numbers. For example, the amortised portion of Tier 2
where remaining maturity is greater than one year (row 7) should be reported as a negative
number (as it adds back in the calculation of Tier 2 instruments eligible as TLAC), while Tier 2 capital
ineligible as TLAC (row 8) should be reported as a positive number.

Row
           Explanation
number

           CET1 capital of the resolution group, calculated in line with the Basel III and TLAC frameworks. National authorities may require this row to be reported net of an MPE G-
           SIB resolution entity's CET1 capital investments in other resolution groups (see Note).
1          

           AT 1 capital. This row will provide information on the AT1 capital of the resolution group, calculated in line with the CAP standard and the TLAC framework.

           AT1 instruments issued out of subsidiaries to third parties that are ineligible as TLAC.
2
           
           According to Section 8c of the TLAC Term Sheet, such instruments could be recognised to meet minimum TLAC until 31 December 2021. An amount (equal to that reported in
           row 34 in Template CC1) should thus be reported only starting from 1 January 2022.
3
           

           Other elements of AT1 capital that are ineligible as TLAC (excluding those already
           incorporated in row 3). For example, national authorities may include in this row deductions related to an MPE G-SIB resolution entity's AT1 capital investments in other
           resolution groups (see also Note).
4
           

           AT1 instruments eligible under the TLAC framework, to be calculated as row 2 minus   rows 3 and 4.
5
         

           Tier 2 capital of the resolution group, calculated in line with the Basel III and TLAC frameworks.
6
           

           Amortised portion of Tier 2 instruments where remaining maturity is greater than one year. This row recognises that as long as the remaining maturity of a Tier 2 instrument is
           above the one-year residual maturity requirement of the TLAC Term Sheet, the full amount may be included in TLAC, even if the instrument is partially derecognised in
           regulatory capital via the requirement to amortise the instrument in the five years before  maturity. Only the amount not recognised in regulatory capital but meeting all TLAC
       eligibility criteria should be reported in this row.
           
7          



      

       Tier 2 instruments issued out of subsidiaries to third parties that are ineligible as TLAC.
       According to Section 8c of the TLAC Term Sheet, such instruments could be recognised to meet minimum TLAC until 31 December 2021. An amount (equal to that reported in
       row 48 of Template CC1) should thus be reported only starting from 1 January 2022.

8
       
       Other elements of Tier 2 capital that are ineligible as TLAC (excluding those that are
       already incorporated in row 8). For example, some jurisdictions recognise an element of
       Tier 2 capital in the final year before maturity, but such amounts are ineligible as TLAC.
9      Regulatory capital instruments issued by funding vehicles are another example. Also,
       national authorities may include in this row deductions related to an MPE G-SIB
       resolution entity's investments in the Tier 2 instruments or other TLAC liabilities of other
       resolution groups (see Note).

       Tier 2 instruments eligible under the TLAC framework, to be calculated as: row 6 + row 7  - row 8 - row 9.
10
      

11     TLAC arising from regulatory capital, to be calculated as: row 1 + row 5 + row 10.

       External TLAC instruments issued directly by the resolution entity and subordinated to
       excluded liabilities. The amount reported in this row must meet the subordination requirements set out in points (a) to (c) of Section 11 of the TLAC Term Sheet, or be
       exempt from the requirement by meeting the conditions set out in points (i) to (iv) of the
       same section.
12     

       External TLAC instruments issued directly by the resolution entity that are not
       subordinated to Excluded Liabilities but meet the other TLAC Term Sheet requirements.
       The amount reported in this row should be those subject to recognition as a result of the application of the penultimate and antepenultimate paragraphs of Section 11 of the
       TLAC Term Sheet. The full amounts should be reported in this row, ie without applying
       the 2.5% and 3.5% caps set out the penultimate paragraph.

13
       
       The amount reported in row 13 above after the application of the 2.5% and 3.5% caps set out in the penultimate paragraph of Section 11 of the TLAC Term Sheet.
14
       

       External TLAC instrument issued by a funding vehicle prior to 1 January 2022. Amounts issued after 1 January 2022 are not eligible as TLAC and should not be reported here.
15
       

       Eligible ex ante commitments to recapitalise a G-SIB in resolution, subject to the conditions set out in the second paragraph of Section 7 of the TLAC Term Sheet.
16
       

       Non-regulatory capital elements of TLAC before adjustments. To be calculated as: row 12 + row 14 + row 15 + row 16.
17
       

18     TLAC before adjustments. To be calculated as: row 11 + row 17.

       Deductions of exposures between MPE G-SIB resolution groups that correspond to items
       eligible for TLAC (not applicable for SPE G-SIBs). All amounts reported in this row should
       correspond to deductions applied after the appropriate adjustments agreed by the crisis
       management group (CMG) (following the penultimate paragraph of Section 3 of the TLAC Term Sheet, the CMG shall discuss and, where appropriate and consistent with the resolution strategy, agree on the allocation of the deduction). National authorities may
       include in this row an MPE G-SIB resolution entity's investments in other resolution
       groups (see Note).
19     


       

       Deductions of investments in own other TLAC liabilities; amount to be deducted from  TLAC resources in accordance with CAP30.18 to CAP30.20.
20
      

21     Other adjustments to TLAC.

       TLAC of the resolution group (as the case may be) after deductions. To be calculated as:  row 18 - row 19 - row 20 - row 21.
22
      

       Total RWA of the resolution group under the TLAC regime. For SPE G-SIBs, this  information is based on the consolidated figure, so the amount reported in this row will
       coincide with that in row 60 of Template CC1.

23    
24     Leverage exposure measure of the resolution group (denominator of leverage ratio).

       TLAC ratio (as a percentage of RWA for TLAC purposes), to be calculated as row 22   divided by row 23.
25
      

       TLAC ratio (as a percentage of leverage exposure measure), to be calculated as row 22   divided by row 24.
26
     

       CET1 capital (as a percentage of RWA) available after meeting the resolution group's
       minimum capital requirements and TLAC requirement. To be calculated as the CET1
       capital adequacy ratio, less any common equity (as a percentage of RWA) used to meet
       CET1, Tier 1, and Total minimum capital and TLAC requirements. For example, suppose a
       resolution group (that is subject to regulatory capital requirements) has 100 RWA, 10 CET1 capital, 1.5 AT1 capital, no Tier 2 capital and 9 non-regulatory capital TLAC-eligible
       instruments. The resolution group will have to earmark its CET1 capital to meet the 8%
       minimum capital requirement and 18% minimum TLAC requirement. The net CET1
       capital left to meet other requirements (which could include Pillar 2 or buffers) will be  2.5.
27
       

       Bank-specific buffer requirement (capital conservation buffer plus countercyclical buffer
       requirements plus G-SIB buffer requirement, expressed as a percentage of RWA).
       Calculated as the sum of: (i) the G-SIB's capital conservation buffer; (ii) the G-SIB's
       specific countercyclical buffer requirement calculated in accordance with RBC30; and (iii) the higher loss-absorbency requirement as set out in RBC40.

       Not applicable to individual resolution groups of an MPE G-SIB, unless the relevant
       authority imposes buffer requirements at the level of consolidation and requires such
       disclosure.
28     

       The amount in row 28 (expressed as a percentage of RWA) that relates to the capital
       conservation buffer), ie G-SIBs will report 2.5% here.
29
       Not applicable to individual resolution groups of an MPE G-SIB, unless otherwise
       required by the relevant authority.

       The amount in row 28 (expressed as a percentage of RWA) that relates to the G-SIB's
       specific countercyclical buffer requirement.

30         Not applicable to individual resolution groups of an MPE G-SIB, unless otherwise
           required by the relevant authority.

           The amount in row 28 (expressed as a percentage of RWA) that relates to the higher loss-
           absorbency requirement.
31
           Not applicable to individual resolution groups of an MPE G-SIB, unless otherwise
           required by the relevant authority.

Note: In the case of a resolution group of an MPE G-SIB, unless otherwise specified, the relevant
national authority supervising the group can choose to require the group to calculate and report
row 11 either: (i) net of its investments in the regulatory capital or other TLAC liabilities of other
resolution groups (ie by deducting such investments in rows 1, 4 and 9 as applicable); or (ii) gross,
in which case the investments will need to be deducted from TLAC resources in row 19 along with
any investments in non-regulatory-capital elements of TLAC.

In general, to ensure that the templates remain comparable across jurisdictions, there should be no
adjustments to the version that G-SIB resolution entities use to disclose their TLAC position.
However, the following exceptions apply to take account of language differences and to reduce the
reporting of unnecessary information:


       The template and explanatory table can be translated by the relevant national authorities
       into the relevant national language(s) that implement the standards in the TLAC Term Sheet.
       The translated version of the template will retain all of the rows included in the template
       above.
       Regarding the explanatory table, the national version can reference the national rules that
       implement the relevant sections of the TLAC Term Sheet.
       G-SIB resolution groups are not permitted to add, delete or change the definitions of any
       rows from the common reporting template implemented in their jurisdiction. This is
       irrespective of the concession allowed in DIS10.23 that banks may delete the specific row
       /column from the template if such row/column is not considered to be relevant to the G-
       SIBs' activities or the required information would not be meaningful to the users, and will
       prevent a divergence of templates that could undermine the objectives of consistency and
       comparability.
       The national version of the template must retain the same row numbering used in the first
       column of the template above, such that users of Pillar 3 data can easily map the national
       templates to the common version above. The insertion of any rows must leave the
       numbering of the remaining rows unchanged, eg rows detailing national specific regulatory
       adjustments to AT1 capital could be labelled row 3a, row 3b etc, to ensure that the
       subsequent row numbers are not affected.
       In cases where the national implementation of the Term Sheet applies a more conservative
       definition of an element listed in the template above, national authorities may choose
       between one of two approaches:

     - Approach 1: In the national version of the template, maintain the same definitions of all rows
         as set out in the template above, and require G-SIBs to report the impact of the more
         conservative national definition in designated rows for specific national adjustments.


    - Approach 2: In the national version of the template, use the definitions of elements as
        implemented in that jurisdiction, clearly label them as being different from the TLAC
        definition, and require G-SIBs to separately disclose the impact of each of these different
        definitions in the notes to the template.

The aim of both approaches is to provide all the information necessary to enable users of Pillar 3
data to calculate the TLAC of G-SIBs on a common basis.

Template TLAC2 - Material subgroup entity - creditor ranking at legal
entity level


Purpose: Provide creditors with information regarding their ranking in the liabilities structure of a
material subgroup entity (ie an entity that is part of a material subgroup) which has issued internal
TLAC to a G-SIB resolution entity.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all G-SIBs. It is to be completed in respect of
every material subgroup entity within each resolution group of a G-SIB, as defined by the FSB
TLAC Term Sheet, on a legal entity basis. G-SIBs should group the templates according to the
resolution group to which the material subgroup entities belong (whose positions are represented
in the templates) belong, in a manner that makes it clear to which resolution entity they have
exposures.

Content: Nominal values.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed (number and description of each column under "Creditor ranking" depending on
the liabilities structure of a material subgroup entity).

Accompanying narrative: Where appropriate, banks should provide bank- or jurisdiction-specific
information relating to credit hierarchies.

                                        Creditor ranking                                      Sum
                                                                                              

                                            (most  junior)  (most  junior)  (most  junior) 

    Is the resolution entity the  creditor/investor? (yes or no)
1                                                                   -
   

    Description of creditor ranking (free text)
2
    

    Total capital and liabilities net  of credit risk mitigation
3                                                                   -
   

    Subset of row 3 that are  excluded liabilities
4                                                                   -
   

    Total capital and liabilities  less excluded liabilities (row 3                                
    minus row 4)
5  

    Subset of row 5 that are eligible as TLAC
6                                                                   -
    

    Subset of row 6 with 1 year less than residual maturity less than 2 years
7                                                                   -
    
8    Subset of row 6 with 2 years                                        -
     less than residual maturity less than 5 years

     Subset of row 6 with 5 years
9                                                                        -
     less than residual maturity less than 10 years

     Subset of row 6 with residual maturity greater than 10 years, but  excluded perpetual securities
10                                              -
     

     Subset of row 6 that is  perpetual securities

11
    
     Explanations


       Different jurisdictions have different statutory creditor hierarchies. The number of creditor
       rankings (n) in the creditor hierarchy will depend on the set of liabilities of the entity. There
       is at least one column for each creditor ranking. In cases where the resolution entity is a
       creditor of part of the total amount in the creditor ranking, two columns should be
       completed (both with the same ordinal ranking): one covering amounts owned by the
       resolution entity and the other covering amounts not owned by the resolution entity.
       Columns should be added until the most senior-ranking internal TLAC-eligible instruments,
       and all pari passu liabilities, have been reported. The table therefore contains all funding
       that is pari passu or junior to internal TLAC-eligible instruments, including equity and other
       capital instruments. Note that there may be some instruments that are eligible as internal
       TLAC despite ranking pari passu to excluded liabilities, as described in Section 11 of the FSB
       TLAC Term Sheet.
       G-SIBs should provide a description of each creditor class ranking. This description can be in
       free form text. Typically the description should include a specification of at least one type of
       instrument that is within that creditor class ranking (eg common shares, Tier 2 instruments).
       This allows for the disclosure of the creditor hierarchy even if there is a range of different
       statutory creditor hierarchies in different jurisdictions, tranching that may exist within some
       jurisdictions' statutory hierarchies or which banks have established contractually with
       respect to the ranking of claims.
       Instruments are not eligible as TLAC if they are subject to setoff or netting rights, under
       Sections 9 (paragraph (c)) and 19 of the FSB TLAC Term Sheet. However, where there are
       internal TLAC instruments that rank pari passu with excluded liabilities, these excluded
       liabilities should be reported in rows 3 and 4, net of credit risk mitigation, as they could be
       bailed in alongside TLAC. Collateralised loans should be excluded, except for any debt in
       excess of the value of the collateral. Instruments subject to public guarantee should be
       included as they can be bailed in (with investors compensated in accordance with the
       guarantee). Liabilities subject to setoff or netting rights should be included net of the firm's
       claims on the creditor.
       Excluded liabilities in row 4 include all of the following: (i) insured deposits; (ii) sight deposits
       and short-term deposits (deposits with original maturity of less than one year); (iii) liabilities
       which are preferred to senior unsecured creditors under the relevant insolvency law; (iv)
       liabilities arising from derivatives or debt instruments with derivative-linked features, such as
       structured notes; (v) liabilities arising other than through a contract, such as tax liabilities;
       and (vi) any other liabilities that, under the laws governing the issuing entity, cannot be
       effectively written down or converted into equity by the relevant resolution authority.

Row 6 includes the subset of the amounts reported in row 5 that are internal TLAC-eligible
according to Section 19 the FSB TLAC Term Sheet (eg those that have a residual maturity of at
least one year, are unsecured and if redeemable are not redeemable without supervisory approval).



Template TLAC3 - Resolution entity - creditor ranking at legal entity
level



 Purpose: Provide creditors with information regarding their ranking in the liabilities structure of
 each G-SIB resolution entity.

 Scope of application: The template is to be completed in respect of every resolution entity within
 the G-SIB, as defined by the TLAC standard, on a legal entity basis.

 Content: Nominal values.

 Frequency: Semiannual.

 Format: Fixed (number and description of each column under "Creditor ranking" depending on
 the liabilities structure of a resolution entity).

 Accompanying narrative: Where appropriate, banks should provide bank- or jurisdiction-specific
 information relating to credit hierarchies.

                                                          Creditor ranking                 Sum of 1
                                                                                           to n

                                                          1         2        -   n

                                                          (most                  (most
                                                          junior)                senior)

 1    Description of creditor ranking (free text)

      Total capital and liabilities net of credit risk
 2                                                                           -
      mitigation

 3    Subset of row 2 that are excluded liabilities                          -

      Total capital and liabilities less excluded
 4                                                                           -
      liabilities (row 2 minus row 3)

      Subset of row 4 that are potentially eligible as
 5                                                                           -
      TLAC

      Subset of row 5 with 1 year less than residual maturity
 6                                                                           -
      less than 2 years

      Subset of row 5 with 2 years less than residual maturity
 7                                                                           -
      less than 5 years

      Subset of row 5 with 5 years less than residual maturity
 8                                                                           -
      less than 10 years

      Subset of row 5 with residual maturity greater than 10
 9                                                                           -
      years, but excluding perpetual securities

 10   Subset of row 5 that is perpetual securities                           -

Definitions and instructions
This template is the same as Template TLAC 2 except that no information is collected regarding
exposures to the resolution entity (since the template describes the resolution entity itself). This
means that there will only be one column for each layer of the creditor hierarchy.

Row 5 represents the subset of the amounts reported in row 4 that are TLAC-eligible according to
the FSB TLAC Term Sheet (eg those that have a residual maturity of at least one year, are unsecured
and if redeemable are not redeemable without supervisory approval). For the purposes of reporting
this amount, the 2.5% cap (3.5% from 2022) on the exemption from the subordination requirement
under the penultimate paragraph of Section 11 of the TLAC Term Sheet should be disapplied. That
is, amounts that are ineligible solely as a result of the 2.5% cap (3.5%) should be included in full in
row 5 together with amounts that are receiving recognition as TLAC. See also the second paragraph
in Section 7 of the FSB TLAC Term Sheet.




                                 DIS30
                                 Links between financial
                                 statements and regulatory
                                 exposures
                                 This chapter describes requirements for banks to
                                 disclose reconciliations between elements of the
                                 calculation of regulatory capital to audited
                                 financial statements.


                                 Introduction
30.1   The disclosure requirements set out in this chapter are:

       (1) Table LIA – Explanations of differences between accounting and regulatory
           exposure amounts

       (2) Template LI1 – Differences between accounting and regulatory scopes of
           consolidation and mapping of financial statement categories with regulatory
           risk categories

       (3) Template LI2 – Main sources of differences between regulatory exposure
           amounts and carrying values in financial statements

       (4) Template PV1 – Prudent valuation adjustments (PVAs)

30.2   Table LIA provides qualitative explanations on the differences observed between
       accounting carrying value (as defined in Template LI1) and amounts considered
       for regulatory purposes (as defined in Template LI2) under each framework.

30.3   Template LI1 provides information on how the amounts reported in banks’
       financial statements correspond to regulatory risk categories. Template LI2
       provides information on the main sources of differences (other than due to
       different scopes of consolidation which are shown in Template LI1) between the
       financial statements’ carrying value amounts and the exposure amounts used for
       regulatory purposes.

     FAQ
     FAQ1      In Template LI1, are assets deducted from regulatory capital in
               accordance with Basel III (eg goodwill and intangible assets) disclosed
               in column (g)?

               Elements which are deducted from a bank’s regulatory capital (eg
               goodwill and intangible assets and deferred tax assets) should be
               included in column (g), taking into consideration the different
               thresholds that apply where relevant. Assets should be disclosed for the
               amount that is actually deducted from capital. Some examples are
               shown below:

               - Goodwill and intangible assets: the amount to be disclosed in
                 column (g) is the amount of any goodwill or intangibles,* including
                 any goodwill included in the valuation of significant investments in
                 the capital of banking, financial and insurance entities that are
                 outside the scope of regulatory consolidation. The amount disclosed
                 in the assets rows is net of any associated deferred tax liability
                 which would be extinguished if the intangible assets become
                 impaired or derecognised under the relevant accounting standards.
                 The associated deferred tax liability is also to be disclosed in the
                 liabilities rows of column (g).

               - Deferred tax assets: for all types of deferred tax assets to be
                 deducted from own funds, the amount to be disclosed in column (g)
                 is net of associated deferred tax liabilities that are eligible for
                 netting. The associated deferred tax liabilities are to be disclosed in
                 the liabilities rows of column (g). For deferred tax assets, for which
                 the deduction is subject to a threshold, the amount disclosed in
                 column (g) in the assets rows is the amount, net of any eligible
                 deferred tax liability, above the threshold. The associated deferred
                 tax liabilities are also to be disclosed in the liabilities rows of column
                 (g).

               - Defined benefit pension fund assets: the amount disclosed is net of
                 any deferred tax liabilities which would be extinguished if the asset
                 should become impaired or derecognised under the relevant
                 accounting standards. These deferred tax liabilities are also to be
                 disclosed in the liabilities rows of column (g).

               - Investments in own shares (treasury stock) or own instruments of
                 regulatory capital: when investments in own shares or own
                 instruments of regulatory capital are not already derecognised
                 under the relevant accounting standards, the deducted amount
                 disclosed is net of short positions in the same underlying exposure


                  or in the same underlying index allowed to be netted under the
                  Basel framework. These short positions are also to be disclosed in
                  the liabilities rows of column (g).

               * Under CAP30.8, subject to supervisory approval, banks that report
               under local GAAP may use the IFRS definition of intangible assets to
               determine which assets are classified as intangible and are thus
               required to be deducted.

     FAQ2      In Template LI1, are exposures required to be 1,250% risk-weighted to
               be disclosed in column (g)?

               1,250% risk-weighted exposures should be disclosed in the relevant
               credit risk or securitisation risk templates.

     FAQ3      Template LI1: Considering that the risk weighting framework bears on
               assets rather than liabilities, should all the liabilities be disclosed in
               column (g)? Should in any case deferred tax liabilities and defined
               benefit pension fund liabilities be included in column (g)?

               The liabilities disclosed in column (g) are all liabilities under the
               regulatory scope of consolidation, except for the following, which are
               disclosed in columns (c), (d), (e) and (f) as applicable: liabilities that are
               included in the determination of the exposure values in the market risk
               or the counterparty credit risk framework; and liabilities that are
               eligible under the Basel netting rules.

     FAQ4      What is the difference in Template LI2 between the required disclosure
               in row 2 (Liabilities carrying value amount under regulatory scope of
               consolidation) and row 6 (Differences due to different netting rules,
               other than those already included in row 2).

               Row 2 refers to balance sheet netting, while row 6 refers to incremental
               netting in application of the Basel rules (when not already covered by
               balance sheet netting). The netting rules under the Basel framework
               are different from the rules under the applicable accounting
               frameworks. The incremental netting in row 6 could represent an
               additional deduction from the net exposure value before application of
               the Basel netting rules (when those rules lead to more netting than the
               balance sheet netting in row 2) or a gross-up of the net exposure value
               when the off-balance sheet netting operated in row 2 is broader than
               what the Basel netting rules allow.

     FAQ5



                  How does the disclosure in Template LI2, in particular row 3 (total net
                  amount under regulatory scope of consolidated) relate to accounting
                  equity?

                  The netting between assets and liabilities in Template LI2 does not lead
                  to accounting equity under a regulatory scope of consolidation being
                  disclosed in row 3. Assets and liabilities included in rows 1 and 2 are
                  limited to those assets and liabilities that are taken into consideration
                  in the regulatory framework. Other assets and liabilities not considered
                  in the regulatory framework are to be disclosed in column (g) in
                  Template LI1 and are consequently excluded from rows 1 and 2 of
                  Template LI2.

       FAQ6       For Template LI2, how would the entry in row 10 (exposure amounts
                  considered for regulatory purpose) differ from the balance sheet values
                  under a regulatory scope of consolidation? Is it correct that there would
                  be no differences to be explained, given that market risk does not have
                  exposure values and the linkage for the other risk categories does not
                  apply?

                  In general, under a regulatory scope of consolidation, the accounting
                  carrying amount and the regulatory exposure value would vary due to
                  the incidence of off-balance sheet elements, provisions, and different
                  netting and measurement rules. Under market risk, the regulatory
                  exposure value will also differ from the accounting carrying amount.
                  Differences could be due to off-balance sheet items, netting rules and
                  different measurement rules of market risk positions via prudent
                  valuation (as opposed to fair valuation in the applicable accounting
                  framework).


30.4   Template PV1 will provide users with a detailed breakdown of how the aggregate
       PVAs have been derived. In light of instances where the underlying exposures
       cannot be easily classified as a banking book or trading book exposure due to
       the varied implementation of PVAs across jurisdictions, national supervisors are
       allowed discretion to tailor the format of the template to reflect the
       implementation of PVAs in their jurisdiction. Where such discretion has been
       exercised, the allocation methodology should be explained in the narrative
       commentary to the disclosure requirement.



Table LIA: Explanations of differences between accounting and
regulatory exposure amounts

Purpose: Provide qualitative explanations on the differences observed between accounting
carrying value (as defined in Template LI1) and amounts considered for regulatory purposes (as
defined in Template LI2) under each framework.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Qualitative information.

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible.

Banks must explain the origins of the differences between accounting amounts, as reported in
financial statements amounts and regulatory exposure amounts, as displayed in Templates LI1 and
LI2.

      Banks must explain the origins of any significant differences between the amounts in columns
(a)
      (a) and (b) in Template LI1.

      Banks must explain the origins of differences between carrying values and amounts considered
(b)
      for regulatory purposes shown in Template LI2.

      In accordance with the implementation of the guidance on prudent valuation (see CAP50),
      banks must describe systems and controls to ensure that the valuation estimates are prudent
      and reliable. Disclosure must include:


(c)         Valuation methodologies, including an explanation of how far mark-to-market and mark-
            to-model methodologies are used.
            Description of the independent price verification process.
            Procedures for valuation adjustments or reserves (including a description of the process
            and the methodology for valuing trading positions by type of instrument).

      Banks with insurance subsidiaries must disclose:


            the national regulatory approach used with respect to insurance entities in determining a
(d)         bank's reported capital positions (ie deduction of investments in insurance subsidiaries or
            alternative approaches, as discussed in SCO30.5; and
            any surplus capital in insurance subsidiaries recognised when calculating the bank's
            capital adequacy (see SCO30.6.




Template LI1: Differences between accounting and regulatory scopes
of consolidation and mapping of financial statement categories with
regulatory risk categories




Purpose: Columns (a) and (b) enable users to identify the differences between the scope of accounting
consolidation and the scope of regulatory consolidation; and columns (c)-(g) break down how the amounts
reported in banks' financial statements (rows) correspond to regulatory risk categories.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Carrying values (corresponding to the values reported in financial statements).

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible (but the rows must align with the presentation of the bank's financial report).

Accompanying narrative: See Table LIA. Banks are expected to provide qualitative explanation on items that are
subject to regulatory capital charges in more than one risk category.

                 

Carrying values as reported in published financial
statements
Carrying values
under scope of regulatory
consolidation
Subject to credit risk
framework
Subject to counterparty credit risk
framework
Subject to the securitisation
framework
Subject to the market risk
framework
Carrying values of items:

Assets

Cash and
balances at
central
banks

Items in the
course of
collection
from other
banks

Trading
portfolio
assets

Financial
assets
designated
at fair value

Derivative
financial
instruments


Loans and
advances to
banks

Loans and
advances to
customers

Reverse
repurchase
agreements
and other
similar
secured
lending

Available
for sale
financial
investments

-.

Total
assets

Liabilities

Deposits
from banks

Items in the
course of
collection
due to
other banks

Customer
accounts

Repurchase
agreements
and other
similar
secured
borrowings

Trading
portfolio
liabilities

Financial
liabilities

designated
at fair value

Derivative
financial
instruments

-.

Total
liabilities

Instructions

Rows

The rows must strictly follow the balance sheet presentation used by the bank in its financial reporting.

Columns

If a bank's scope of accounting consolidation and its scope of regulatory consolidation are exactly the sam
columns (a) and (b) should be merged.

The breakdown of regulatory categories (c) to (f) corresponds to the breakdown prescribed in the rest of DIS,
column (c) corresponds to the carrying values of items other than off-balance sheet items reported in DIS4
column (d) corresponds to the carrying values of items other than off-balance sheet items reported in DIS4
column (e) corresponds to carrying values of items in the banking book other than off-balance sheet item
reported in DIS43; and column (f) corresponds to the carrying values of items other than off-balance sheet item
reported in DIS50.

Column (g) includes amounts not subject to capital requirements according to the Basel framework or subject t
deductions from regulatory capital.

Note: Where a single item attracts capital charges according to more than one risk category framework,
should be reported in all columns that it attracts a capital charge. As a consequence, the sum of amounts i
columns (c) to (g) may not equal the amounts in column (b) as some items may be subject to regulator
capital charges in more than one risk category.

For example, derivative assets/liabilities held in the regulatory trading book may relate to both column (d) an
column (f). In such circumstances, the sum of the values in columns (c)-(g) would not equal to that in column (b
When amounts disclosed in two or more different columns are material and result in a difference between colum
(b) and the sum of columns (c)-(g), the reasons for this difference should be explained by banks in th
accompanying narrative.


Template LI2: Main sources of differences between regulatory
exposure amounts and carrying values in financial statements




Purpose: Provide information on the main sources of differences (other than due to different
scopes of consolidation which are shown in Template LI1) between the financial statements'
carrying value amounts and the exposure amounts used for regulatory purposes.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Carrying values that correspond to values reported in financial statements but according
to the scope of regulatory consolidation (rows 1-3) and amounts considered for regulatory
exposure purposes (row 10).

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible. Row headings shown below are provided for illustrative purposes only and should
be adapted by the bank to describe the most meaningful drivers for differences between its
financial statement carrying values and the amounts considered for regulatory purposes.

Accompanying narrative: See Table LIA.
Total 
Items subject to:
Credit risk framework
Securitisation framework
Counterparty credit risk framework
Market risk framework


1    Asset carrying
     value amount
     under scope of
     regulatory
     consolidation (as
     per Template LI1)

2    Liabilities carrying
     value amount under
     regulatory scope of
     consolidation (as per
     Template LI1)

3    Total net amount
     under regulatory
     scope of
     consolidation (Row
     1 - Row 2)

4    Off-balance sheet
     amounts

5    Differences in
     valuations

6


     Differences due to
     different netting
     rules, other than
     those already
     included in row 2

7    Differences due to
     consideration of
     provisions

8    Differences due to
     prudential filters

9    ⁞

10   Exposure amounts
     considered for
     regulatory purposes




Instructions

Amounts in rows 1 and 2, columns (b)-(e) correspond to the amounts in columns (c)-(f) of
Template LI1.

Row 1 of Template LI2 includes only assets that are risk-weighted under the Basel framework,
while row 2 includes liabilities that are considered for the application of the risk weighting
requirements, either as short positions, trading or derivative liabilities, or through the application
of the netting rules to calculate the net position of assets to be risk-weighted. These liabilities are
not included in column (g) in Template LI1. Assets that are risk-weighted under the Basel
framework include assets that are not deducted from capital because they are under the applicable
thresholds or due to the netting with liabilities.

Off-balance sheet amounts include off-balance sheet original exposure in column (a) and the
amounts subject to regulatory framework, after application of the credit conversion factors (CCFs)
where relevant in columns (b)-(d).

Column (a) is not necessarily equal to the sum of columns (b)-(e) due to assets being risk-weighted
more than once (see Template LI1). In addition, exposure values used for risk weighting may differ
under each risk framework depending on whether standardised approaches or internal models are
used in the computation of this exposure value. Therefore, for any type of risk framework, the
exposure values under different regulatory approaches can be presented separately in each of the
columns if a separate presentation eases the reconciliation of the exposure values for banks.

The breakdown of columns in regulatory risk categories (b)-(e) corresponds to the breakdown
prescribed in the rest of the document, ie column (b) credit risk corresponds to the exposures
reported in DIS40, column (c) corresponds to the exposures reported in DIS43, column (d)
corresponds to exposures reported in DIS42, and column (e) corresponds to the exposures
reported in DIS50.

Differences due to consideration of provisions: The exposure values under row 1 are the carrying
amounts and hence net of provisions (ie specific and general provisions, as set out in CAP10.18).
Nevertheless, exposures under the foundation internal ratings-based (F-IRB) and advanced internal
ratings-based (A-IRB) approaches are risk-weighted gross of provisions. Row 7 therefore is the re-
inclusion of general and specific provisions in the carrying amount of exposures in the F-IRB and A-
IRB approaches so that the carrying amount of those exposures is reconciled with their regulatory
exposure value. Row 7 may also include the elements qualifying as general provisions that may
have been deducted from the carrying amount of exposures under the standardised approach and
that therefore need to be reintegrated in the regulatory exposure value of those exposures. Any
differences between the accounting impairment and the regulatory provisions under the Basel
framework that have an impact on the exposure amounts considered for regulatory purposes
should also be included in row 7.

Exposure amounts considered for regulatory purposes: The expression designates the aggregate
amount considered as a starting point of the RWA calculation for each of the risk categories.
Under the credit risk framework this should correspond either to the exposure amount applied in
the standardised approach for credit risk (see CRE20) or to the exposures at default (EAD) in the


IRB approach for credit risk (see CRE32.29); securitisation exposures should be defined as in the
securitisation framework (see CRE40.4 and CRE40.5); and counterparty credit exposures are defined
as the EAD considered for counterparty credit risk purposes (see CRE51).

Linkages across templates

Template LI2 is focused on assets in the regulatory scope of consolidation that are subject to the
regulatory framework. Therefore, column (g) in Template LI1, which includes the elements of the
balance sheet that are not subject to the regulatory framework, is not included in Template LI2.
The following linkage holds: column (a) in Template LI2 = column (b) in Template LI1 - column (g)
in Template LI1.


Template PV1: Prudent valuation adjustments (PVAs)




    Purpose: Provide a breakdown of the constituent elements of a bank's PVAs according to the requirements of CAP50, taking into account
    the guidance set out in Supervisory guidance for assessing banks' financial instrument fair value practices, April 2009 (in particular Principle
    10).

    Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks which record PVAs.

    Content: PVAs for all assets measured at fair value (marked to market or marked to model) and for which PVAs are required. Assets can be
    non-derivative or derivative instruments.

    Frequency: Annual.

    Format: Fixed. The row number cannot be altered. Rows which are not applicable to the reporting bank should be filled with "0" and the
    reason why they are not applicable should be explained in the accompanying narrative. Supervisors have the discretion to tailor the format
    of the template to reflect the implementation of PVA in their jurisdictions.

    Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative commentary to explain any significant changes
    over the reporting period and the key drivers of such changes. In particular, banks are expected to detail "Other adjustments", where
    significant, and to define them when they are not listed in the Basel framework. Banks are also expected to explain the types of financial
    instruments for which the highest amounts of PVAs are observed.


Equity 
Interest rates 
Foreign exchange 
Credit 
Commodities 
Total 
Of which: in the trading book 
Of which: in the banking book
1 Closeout
  uncertainty, of which:

2     Mid-market value

3     Closeout cost

4     Concentration

5 Early termination

6 Model risk

7 Operational risk

8 Investing and
  funding costs

9 Unearned credit
  spreads

10 Future
   administrative costs

11 Other

12 Total adjustment

Definitions and instructions

Row
            Explanation
number

            Closeout cost: PVAs required to take account of the valuation uncertainty to adjust for the fact that the position level valuations calculated do not reflect an exit price for the position or portfolio (for example, where such valuations are calibrated to a mid-
            market price).
3           


4         Concentration: PVAs over and above market price and closeout costs that would be required to get to a prudent exit price for
          positions that are larger than the size of positions for which the valuation has been calculated (ie cases where the aggregate
          position held by the bank is larger than normal traded volume or larger than the position sizes on which observable quotes or
          trades that are used to calibrate the price or inputs used by the core valuation model are based).

          Early termination: PVAs to take into account the potential losses arising from contractual or non-contractual early terminations of customer trades that are not reflected in the valuation.
5
          

6         Model risk: PVAs to take into account valuation model risk which arises due to: (i) the potential existence of a range of different
          models or model calibrations which are used by users of Pillar 3 data; (ii) the lack of a firm exit price for the specific product being
          valued; (iii) the use of an incorrect valuation methodology; (iv) the risk of using unobservable and possibly incorrect calibration
          parameters; or (v) the fact that market or product factors are not captured by the core valuation model.

7         Operational risk: PVAs to take into account the potential losses that may be incurred as a result of operational risk related to
          valuation processes.

8         Investing and funding costs: PVAs to reflect the valuation uncertainty in the funding costs that other users of Pillar 3 data would
          factor into the exit price for a position or portfolio. It includes funding valuation adjustments on derivatives exposures.

9         Unearned credit spreads: PVAs to take account of the valuation uncertainty in the adjustment necessary to include the current
          value of expected losses due to counterparty default on derivative positions, including the valuation uncertainty on CVA.

10        Future administrative costs: PVAs to take into account the administrative costs and future hedging costs over the expected life of
          the exposures for which a direct exit price is not applied for the closeout costs. This valuation adjustment has to include the
          operational costs arising from hedging, administration and settlement of contracts in the portfolio. The future administrative costs
          are incurred by the portfolio or position but are not reflected in the core valuation model or the prices used to calibrate inputs to
          that model.

11        Other: "Other" PVAs which are required to take into account factors that will influence the exit price but which do not fall in any of
          the categories listed in CAP50.10. These should be described by banks in the narrative commentary that supports the disclosure.

Linkages across templates

[PV1:12/f] is equal to [CC1:7/a]



                                 DIS35
                                 Remuneration
                                 The disclosures described in this chapter provide
                                 information on a bank's remuneration policy, the
                                 fixed and variable remuneration awarded during
                                 the financial year, details of any special
                                 payments made, and information on a bank's
                                 total outstanding deferred and retained
                                 remuneration.


                                Introduction
35.1   The disclosure requirements under this section are:

       (1) Table REMA – Remuneration policy

       (2) Template REM1 – Remuneration awarded during financial year

       (3) Template REM2 – Special payments

       (4) Template REM3 – Deferred remuneration

35.2   Table REMA provides information on a bank’s remuneration policy as well as key
       features of the remuneration system.

35.3   Templates REM1, REM2 and REM3 provide information on a bank’s fixed and
       variable remuneration awarded during the financial year, details of any special
       payments made, and information on a bank’s total outstanding deferred and
       retained remuneration, respectively.

35.4   The disclosure requirements should be published annually. When it is not
       possible for the remuneration disclosures to be made at the same time as the
       publication of a bank’s annual report, the disclosures should be made as soon as
       possible thereafter.




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                          1326/1626
Table REMA: Remuneration policy




Purpose: Describe the bank's remuneration policy as well as key features of the remuneration
system to allow meaningful assessments by users of Pillar 3 data of banks' compensation practices.

Scope of application: The table is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Qualitative information.

Frequency: Annual

Format: Flexible.

Banks must describe the main elements of their remuneration system and how they develop this
system. In particular, the following elements, where relevant, should be described:

Qualitative disclosures

      Information relating to the bodies that oversee remuneration. Disclosures should include:


            Name, composition and mandate of the main body overseeing remuneration.
            External consultants whose advice has been sought, the body by which they were
(a)         commissioned, and in what areas of the remuneration process.
            A description of the scope of the bank's remuneration policy (eg by regions, business
            lines), including the extent to which it is applicable to foreign subsidiaries and branches.
            A description of the types of employees considered as material risk-takers and as senior
            managers.

      Information relating to the design and structure of remuneration processes. Disclosures should
      include:


            An overview of the key features and objectives of remuneration policy.
(b)         Whether the remuneration committee reviewed the firm's remuneration policy during the
            past year, and if so, an overview of any changes that were made, the reasons for those
            changes and their impact on remuneration.
            A discussion of how the bank ensures that risk and compliance employees are
            remunerated independently of the businesses they oversee.

    Description of the ways in which current and future risks are taken into account in the
(c) remuneration processes. Disclosures should include an overview of the key risks, their
    measurement and how these measures affect remuneration.

      Description of the ways in which the bank seeks to link performance during a performance
      measurement period with levels of remuneration. Disclosures should include:


            An overview of main performance metrics for bank, top-level business lines and
            individuals.
(d)         A discussion of how amounts of individual remuneration are linked to bank-wide and
            individual performance.



            A discussion of the measures the bank will in general implement to adjust remuneration
            in the event that performance metrics are weak, including the bank's criteria for
            determining "weak" performance metrics.

      Description of the ways in which the bank seeks to adjust remuneration to take account of
      longer-term performance. Disclosures should include:


            A discussion of the bank's policy on deferral and vesting of variable remuneration and, if
(e)         the fraction of variable remuneration that is deferred differs across employees or groups
            of employees, a description of the factors that determine the fraction and their relative
            importance.
            A discussion of the bank's policy and criteria for adjusting deferred remuneration before
            vesting and (if permitted by national law) after vesting through clawback arrangements.

      Description of the different forms of variable remuneration that the bank utilises and the
      rationale for using these different forms. Disclosures should include:


(f)         An overview of the forms of variable remuneration offered (ie cash, shares and share-
            linked instruments and other forms).
            A discussion of the use of the different forms of variable remuneration and, if the mix of
            different forms of variable remuneration differs across employees or groups of
            employees), a description the factors that determine the mix and their relative importance.



Table REM1: Remuneration awarded during the financial year




Purpose: Provide quantitative information on remuneration for the financial year.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Quantitative information.

Frequency: Annual

Format: Flexible.

Accompanying narrative: Banks may supplement the template with a narrative commentary to
explain any significant movements over the reporting period and the key drivers of such
movements.

                                                                    

     Remuneration amount                                     Senior  management                  Other material risk-takers

1                    Number of employees

2                    Total fixed remuneration (rows 3 + 5
                     + 7)

3                      Of which: cash-based

4                           Of which: deferred
     Fixed
     remuneration
5                      Of which: shares or other
                       share-linked instruments

6                           Of which: deferred

7                      Of which: other forms

8                           Of which: deferred

9                    Number of employees

10                   Total variable remuneration (rows 11
                     + 13 + 15)

11                      Of which: cash-based

12                          Of which: deferred
     Variable
     remuneration
13                     Of which: shares or other
                       share-linked instruments


14                          Of which: deferred

15                     Of which: other forms

16                          Of which: deferred

17   Total remuneration (rows 2 + 10)


Definitions and instructions

Senior management and other material risk-takers categories in columns (a) and (b) must
correspond to the type of employees described in Table REMA.

Other forms of remuneration in rows 7 and 15 must be described in Table REMA and, if needed, in
the accompanying narrative.


Table REM2: Special payments

Purpose: Provide quantitative information on special payments for the financial year.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Quantitative information.

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible.

Accompanying narrative: Banks may supplement the template with a narrative commentary to
explain any significant movements over the reporting period and the key drivers of such
movements.

Special payments       Guaranteed bonuses           Sign-on awards           Severance payments

                      Number of  employees          Total  amount  Number of  employees        Total  amount   Number of employees   Total
                                        amount

Senior
management

Other      material
risk-takers


Definitions and instructions

Senior management and other material risk-takers categories in rows 1 and 2 must correspond to
the type of employees described in Table REMA.

Guaranteed bonuses are payments of guaranteed bonuses during the financial year.

Sign-on awards are payments allocated to employees upon recruitment during the financial year.

Severance payments are payments allocated to employees dismissed during the financial year.




Template REM3: Deferred remuneration

Template REM3: Deferred remuneration




Purpose: Provide quantitative information on deferred and retained remuneration.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Quantitative information.

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible.

Accompanying narrative: Banks may supplement the template with a narrative commentary to explain any significant movements over the
reporting period and the key drivers of such movements.

Deferred and retained remuneration
Total amount of outstanding deferred remuneration
Of which:
total amount of outstanding deferred and retained remuneration exposed to ex post explicit and/or implicit adjustment
Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post explicit adjustments
Total amount of amendment during the year due to ex post implicit adjustments
Total amount of deferred remuneration paid out in the financial year

Senior management

  Cash

  Shares

  Cash-linked
  instruments


  Other

Other     material   risk-
takers

  Cash

  Shares

  Cash-linked
  instruments

  Other

Total

Definitions

Outstanding exposed to ex post explicit adjustment: Part of the deferred and retained remuneration that is subject to direct adjustment clauses
(for instance, subject to malus, clawbacks or similar reversal or downward revaluations of awards).

Outstanding exposed to ex post implicit adjustment: Part of the deferred and retained remuneration that is subject to adjustment clauses that
could change the remuneration, due to the fact that they are linked to the performance of other indicators (for instance, fluctuation in the
value of shares performance or performance units).

In columns (a) and (b), the amounts at reporting date (cumulated over the last years) are expected. In columns (c)-(e), movements during the
financial year are expected. While columns (c) and (d) show the movements specifically related to column (b), column (e) shows payments that
have affected column (a).


                                 DIS40
                                 Credit risk
                                 This chapter describes disclosure requirements
                                 for credit risk.


                                
Introduction
40.1   The scope of DIS40 includes items subject to risk-weighted assets (RWA) for
       credit risk as defined in RBC20.6(1), ie excluding:

       (1) all positions subject to the securitisation regulatory framework, including
           those that are included in the banking book for regulatory purposes, which
           are reported in DIS43.

       (2) capital requirements relating to counterparty credit risk, which are reported
           in DIS42.

40.2   The disclosure requirements under this section are:

       General information about credit risk:

       (1) Table CRA - General qualitative information about credit risk

       (2) Template CR1 - Credit quality of assets

       (3) Template CR2 - Changes in stock of defaulted loans and debt securities

       (4) Table CRB - Additional disclosure related to the credit quality of assets

       Credit risk mitigation:

       (5) Table CRC - Qualitative disclosure related to credit risk mitigation techniques

       (6) Template CR3 - Credit risk mitigation techniques - overview

       Credit risk under standardised approach:

       (7) Table CRD - Qualitative disclosure on banks' use of external credit ratings
           under the standardised approach for credit risk

       (8) Template CR4 - Standardised approach - Credit risk exposure and credit risk
           mitigation effects

       (9) Template CR5 - Standardised approach - Exposures by asset classes and risk
           weights

       Credit risk under internal risk-based approaches:

       (10) Table CRE - Qualitative disclosure related to internal ratings-based (IRB)
            models


     (11) Template CR6 - IRB - Credit risk exposures by portfolio and probability of
          default (PD) range

     (12) Template CR7 - IRB - Effect on RWA of credit derivatives used as credit risk
          mitigation (CRM) techniques

     (13) Template CR8 - RWA flow statements of credit risk exposures under IRB

     (14) Template CR9 - IRB - Backtesting of PD per portfolio

     (15) Template CR10 - IRB (specialised lending and equities under the simple risk
          weight method)


     FAQ
     FAQ1       How should the disclosure be made in Template CR3, in an example
                where a loan has multiple types of credit risk mitigation and is over-
                collateralised (eg a loan of 100 with land collateral of 120 as well as
                guarantees of 50)?

                When an exposure benefits from multiple types of credit risk mitigation
                mechanisms, the exposure value should be allocated to each
                mechanism by order of priority based on the credit risk mitigation
                mechanism which banks would apply in the event of loss. Disclosure
                should be limited to the value of the exposure (ie the amount of over-
                collateralisation does not need to be disclosed in the table). If the bank
                wishes to disclose information regarding the over-collateralisation, it
                may do so in the accompanying narrative. Refer to example in DIS99.1.

     FAQ2       What are the values to be ascribed to collateral, guarantees and credit
                derivatives in Template CR3?

                Banks should disclose the amount of credit risk mitigation calculated
                according to the regulatory framework, including both the costs to sell
                and of haircut.

     FAQ3       Where should exposures to central counterparties (CCPs) be included?

                Exposures for trades, initial margins and default fund contributions are
                included in Template CCR8. Exposures stemming from loans to CCPs
                excluding initial margins and default fund contributions should be
                included within the credit risk framework considering the CCP as an



               asset class item. These loans should be included in the exposure class
               where the national implementation of the Basel framework allows
               exposures to CCPs to be included.

     FAQ4      In Template CR7, what is the required disclosure if an exposure is only
               partially hedged by a credit derivative? For instance, consider a loan
               with nominal exposure of $100, risk weight of 150% and therefore
               RWA of $150. The bank buys a credit default swap with a $30 nominal
               amount, and the risk weight of the protection provider is 50%. Which
               values should be entered in columns (a) and (b)?

               Under the IRB approach, credit derivatives are recognised as CRM
               techniques for the foundation IRB and advanced IRB. In both cases,
               banks can reflect the risk mitigating effect of credit derivatives on an
               exposure by adjusting their PD or loss-given-default (LGD). Banks
               should disclose in column (a), the RWA of an exposure secured by a
               credit derivative calculated without reflecting the risk mitigating effect
               of credit derivatives (in the example, banks would disclose $150). In
               column (b), the RWA of the same exposure calculated reflecting the risk
               mitigating effect of credit derivatives (in the example, banks would
               disclose 30*50% + 70*150% = 120) should be disclosed.

     FAQ5      Is the “weighted average PD” in column (d) of Template CR9 to be
               calculated based on the following formula (∑PDi*EADi )/(∑EADi)?

               “Weighted” means exposure at default-weighted. For this purpose, the
               formula above is correct since the data will be comparable to those
               reported in column (i).

     FAQ6      How should “defaulted obligors” be defined, for the purpose of
               Template CR9? For column (f) (number of obligors), please clarify how
               “obligors” are defined from a retail perspective. Should “end of the
               previous year” include only non-defaulted accounts at the beginning of
               the year, or both defaulted and non-defaulted accounts? Should “end
               of the year” include all active accounts at the end of the year? For
               column (g) (defaulted obligors in the year), please clarify whether it is
               related to accounts that defaulted during the year or from inception.

               The definition of obligors or retail obligors is the same as for other
               obligors; any individual person or persons, or a small or medium-sized
               entity. Furthermore, where banks apply the “transaction approach”,
               each transaction shall be considered as a single obligor. A defaulted
               obligor is an obligor that meets the conditions set out in CRE36.69 to
               CRE36.74.


               For column (f), the “end of the previous year” includes non-defaulted
               accounts at the beginning of the year of reference for disclosure. The
               “end of the year” includes all the non-defaulted accounts related to
               obligors already included in the “end of the previous year” plus all the
               new obligors acquired during the year of reference for disclosure which
               did not go into default during the year. Banks have discretion as to
               whether to include obligors who left during the year within the “end of
               the year” number.

               For column (g), “defaulted obligors” includes: (i) obligors not in default
               at the beginning of the year who went into default during the year;
               and (ii) new obligors acquired during the year– through origination or
               purchase of loans, debt securities or off-balance sheet commitments –
               that were not in default, but which went into default during the year.
               Obligors under (ii) are also separately disclosed in column (h). The PD
               or PD range to be included in columns (d) and (e) is the one assigned
               at the beginning of the period for obligors that are not in default at the
               beginning of the period.

     FAQ7      What considerations can institutions reference when disclosing a
               model performance test (backtesting) when the test is not aligned to
               the year-end disclosure timetable?

               The frequency of the disclosure is not linked to the timing of the bank’s
               backtesting. The annual disclosure frequency does not require a
               timetable of model backtesting that is calibrated on a calendar year
               basis. When the backtesting reference period is not calibrated on a
               calendar year basis, but on another time interval (for instance, a 12-
               month interval), “year” as used in columns (f), (g) and (h) of Template
               CR9 means “over the period used for the backtesting of a model”.
               Banks must, however, disclose the time horizon (observation period
               /timetable) they use for their backtesting.




Table CRA: General qualitative information about credit risk

Purpose: Describe the main characteristics and elements of credit risk management (business
model and credit risk profile, organisation and functions involved in credit risk management, risk
management reporting).

Scope of application: The table is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Qualitative information.

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible.

Banks must describe their risk management objectives and policies for credit risk, focusing in
particular on:

(a)   How the business model translates into the components of the bank's credit risk profile

      Criteria and approach used for defining credit risk management policy and for setting credit
(b)
      risk limits

(c)   Structure and organisation of the credit risk management and control function

      Relationships between the credit risk management, risk control, compliance and internal audit
(d)
      functions

      Scope and main content of the reporting on credit risk exposure and on the credit risk
(e)
      management function to the executive management and to the board of directors




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                                        1341/1626
Template CR1: Credit quality of assets




Purpose: Provide a comprehensive picture of the credit quality of a bank's (on- and off-balance sheet) assets.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks. Columns d, e and f are only applicable for banks that have adopted an
expected credit loss (ECL) accounting model.

Content: Carrying values (corresponding to the accounting values reported in financial statements but according to the scope of regulatory
consolidation).

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed. (Jurisdictions may require a more granular breakdown of asset classes, but rows 1 to 4 as defined below are mandatory for all
banks).

Accompanying narrative: Banks must include their definition of default in an accompanying narrative.

           Gross carrying values of
Defaulted exposures
Non- defaulted exposures
Allowances/ impairments
Of which ECL accounting provisions for credit losses
on standardised approach exposures
Allocated in regulatory category of
Specific
Allocated in regulatory category of
General
Of which ECL accounting provisions for
credit losses on IRB exposures
Net values


1   Loans

    Debt
2
    Securities
    Off-balance
3   sheet
    exposures

4   Total

Definitions

Gross carrying values: on- and off-balance sheet items that give rise to a credit risk exposure according to the Basel framework. On-balance
sheet items include loans and debt securities. Off-balance sheet items must be measured according to the following criteria: (a) guarantees
given - the maximum amount that the bank would have to pay if the guarantee were called. The amount must be gross of any credit
conversion factor (CCF) or credit risk mitigation (CRM) techniques. (b) Irrevocable loan commitments - total amount that the bank has
committed to lend. The amount must be gross of any CCF or CRM techniques. Revocable loan commitments must not be included. The gross
value is the accounting value before any allowance/impairments but after considering write-offs. Banks must not take into account any credit
risk mitigation technique.

Write-offs for the purpose of this template are related to a direct reduction of the carrying amount when the entity has no reasonable
expectations of recovery.

Defaulted exposures: banks should use the definition of default that they also use for regulatory purposes. Banks must provide this definition
of default in the accompanying narrative. For a bank using the standardised approach for credit risk, the default exposures in Templates CR1
and CR2 should correspond to the secured and unsecured portions of claims "past due for more than 90 days", as stated in CRE20.26.

Non-defaulted exposures: any exposure not meeting the above definition of default.

Accounting provisions for credit losses: total amount of provisions, made via an allowance against impaired and not impaired exposures (may
correspond to general reserves in certain jurisdictions or may be made via allowance account or direct reduction - direct write-down in some
jurisdictions) according to the applicable accounting framework. For example, when the accounting framework is IFRS 9, "impaired exposures"
are those that are considered "credit-impaired" in the meaning of IFRS 9 Appendix A. When the accounting framework is US GAAP, "impaired
exposures" are those exposures for which credit losses are measured under ASC Topic 326 and for which the bank has recorded a partial write-
off/write-down.



Banks must fill in column d to f in accordance with the categorisation of accounting provisions distinguishing tho
be categorised in general provisions, as defined in CAP10.18 in their jurisdiction, and those that are categorised
categorisation must be consistent with information provided in Table CRB.

Net values: Total gross value less allowances/impairments.

Debt securities: Debt securities exclude equity investments subject to the credit risk framework. However, banks m
2 and 3 for "other investment" (if needed) and explain in the accompanying narrative.

Linkages across templates

Amount in [CR1:1/g] is equal to the sum [CR3:1/a] + [CR3:1/b].

Amount in [CR1:2/g] is equal to the sum [CR3:2/a] + [CR3:2/b].

Amount in [CR1:4/a] is equal to [CR2:6/a], only when (i) there is zero defaulted off-balance sheet exposure or natio
discretion to include off-balance sheet exposures in Template CR2.


Template CR2: Changes in stock of defaulted loans and debt securities
Purpose: Identify the changes in a bank's stock of defaulted exposures, the flows between non-
defaulted and defaulted exposure categories and reductions in the stock of defaulted exposures
due to write-offs.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Carrying values.

National supervisors have discretion to decide whether off-balance sheet exposures should be
included.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed. (Jurisdictions may require additional columns to provide a further breakdown of
exposures by counterparty type).

Accompanying narrative: Banks should explain the drivers of any significant changes in the
amounts of defaulted exposures from the previous reporting period and any significant movement
between defaulted and non-defaulted loans.

Banks should disclose in their accompanying narrative whether defaulted exposures include off-
balance sheet items.
                                                                                  

    1      Defaulted loans and debt securities at end of the previous reporting
           period

    2      Loans and debt securities that have defaulted since the last reporting period

    3      Returned to non-defaulted status

    4      Amounts written off

    5      Other changes

    6      Defaulted loans and debt securities at end of the reporting period

           (1+2-3-4+5)

Definitions

Defaulted exposure: such exposures must be reported net of write-offs and gross of (ie ignoring)
allowances/impairments. For a bank using the standardised approach for credit risk, the default
exposures in Templates CR1 and CR2 should correspond to the secured and unsecured portions of
claims "past due for more than 90 days", as stated in CRE20.26.

Loans and debt securities that have defaulted since the last reporting period: refers to any loan or
debt securities that became marked as defaulted during the reporting period.

Return to non-defaulted status: refers to loans or debt securities that returned to non-default status
during the reporting period.

Amounts written off: both total and partial write-offs.

Other changes: balancing items that are necessary to enable total to reconcile.

Table CRB: Additional disclosure related to the credit quality of assets




Purpose: Supplement the quantitative templates with information on the credit quality of a bank's
assets.

Scope of application: The table is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Additional qualitative and quantitative information (carrying values).

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible.

Banks must provide the following disclosures:

Qualitative disclosures

      The scope and definitions of "past due" and "impaired" exposures used for accounting
      purposes and the differences, if any, between the definition of past due and default for
      accounting and regulatory purposes. When the accounting framework is IFRS 9, "impaired
(a)   exposures" are those that are considered "credit-impaired" in the meaning of IFRS 9 Appendix
      A. When the accounting framework is US GAAP, "impaired exposures" are those exposures for
      which credit losses are measured under Accounting Standards Codification Topic 326 and for
      which the bank has recorded a partial write-off/writedown.

      The extent of past-due exposures (more than 90 days) that are not considered to be impaired
(b)
      and the reasons for this.

      Description of methods used for determining accounting provisions for credit losses. In
      addition, banks that have adopted an ECL accounting model must provide information on the
(c)
      rationale for categorisation of ECL accounting provisions in general and specific categories for
      standardised approach exposures.

      The bank's own definition of a restructured exposure. Banks should disclose the definition of
(d)   restructured exposures they use (which may be a definition from the local accounting or
      regulatory framework).

Quantitative disclosures

(e)   Breakdown of exposures by geographical areas, industry and residual maturity.

      Amounts of impaired exposures (according to the definition used by the bank for accounting
(f)
      purposes) and related accounting provisions, broken down by geographical areas and industry.

(g)   Ageing analysis of accounting past-due exposures.

(h)   Breakdown of restructured exposures between impaired and not impaired exposures.


Table CRC: Qualitative disclosure related to credit risk mitigation
techniques

Purpose: Provide qualitative information on the mitigation of credit risk.

Scope of application: The table is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Qualitative information.

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible

Banks must disclose:

      Core features of policies and processes for, and an indication of the extent to which the bank
(a)
      makes use of, on- and off-balance sheet netting.

(b)   Core features of policies and processes for collateral evaluation and management.

      Information about market or credit risk concentrations under the credit risk mitigation
      instruments used (ie by guarantor type, collateral and credit derivative providers).

      Banks should disclose a meaningful breakdown of their credit derivative providers, and set
(c)   the level of granularity of this breakdown in accordance with DIS10.12. For instance, banks
      are not required to identify their derivative counterparties nominally if the name of the
      counterparty is considered to be confidential information. Instead, the credit derivative
      exposure can be broken down by rating class or by type of counterparty (eg banks, other
      financial institutions, non-financial institutions).




 Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                                    1350/1626
Template CR3: Credit risk mitigation techniques - overview

Purpose: Disclose the extent of use of credit risk mitigation techniques.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Carrying values. Banks must include all CRM techniques used to reduce capital
requirements and disclose all secured exposures, irrespective of whether the standardised or IRB
approach is used for RWA calculation.

Please refer to DIS99.1 for an illustration on how the template should be completed.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed. (Jurisdictions may require additional sub-rows to provide a more detailed
breakdown in rows but must retain the four rows listed below.) Where banks are unable to
categorise exposures secured by collateral, financial guarantees or credit derivative into "loans" and
"debt securities", they can either (i) merge two corresponding cells, or (ii) divide the amount by the
pro-rata weight of gross carrying values; they must explain which method they have used.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant changes over the reporting period and the key drivers of
such changes.



Exposures unsecured: carrying
amount
Exposures to be secured
Exposures secured by
collateral
Exposures secured by
financial guarantees
Exposures secured by
credit derivatives

1   Loans

2   Debt
    securities

3   Total

4   Of which
    defaulted

Definitions

Exposures unsecured- carrying amount: carrying amount of exposures (net of allowances
/impairments) that do not benefit from a credit risk mitigation technique.

Exposures to be secured: carrying amount of exposures which have at least one credit risk mitigation
mechanism (collateral, financial guarantees, credit derivatives) associated with them. The allocation
of the carrying amount of multi-secured exposures to their different credit risk mitigation
mechanisms is made by order of priority, starting with the credit risk mitigation mechanism
expected to be called first in the event of loss, and within the limits of the carrying amount of the
secured exposures.

Exposures secured by collateral: carrying amount of exposures (net of allowances/impairments)
partly or totally secured by collateral. In case an exposure is secured by collateral and other credit
risk mitigation mechanism(s), the carrying amount of the exposures secured by collateral is the
remaining share of the exposure secured by collateral after consideration of the shares of the
exposure already secured by other mitigation mechanisms expected to be called beforehand in the
event of a loss, without considering overcollateralisation.

Exposures secured by financial guarantees: carrying amount of exposures (net of allowances
/impairments) partly or totally secured by financial guarantees. In case an exposure is secured by
financial guarantees and other credit risk mitigation mechanism, the carrying amount of the
exposure secured by financial guarantees is the remaining share of the exposure secured by
financial guarantees after consideration of the shares of the exposure already secured by other
mitigation mechanisms expected to be called beforehand in the event of a loss, without
considering overcollateralisation.

Exposures secured by credit derivatives: carrying amount of exposures (net of allowances
/impairments) partly or totally secured by credit derivatives. In case an exposure is secured by
credit derivatives and other credit risk mitigation mechanism(s), the carrying amount of the
exposure secured by credit derivatives is the remaining share of the exposure secured by credit
derivatives after consideration of the shares of the exposure already secured by other mitigation mechanisms expected to be called beforehand in the event of a loss, without considering
overcollateralisation.




Table CRD: Qualitative disclosure on banks' use of external credit
ratings under the standardised approach for credit risk
Purpose: Supplement the information on a bank's use of the standardised approach with
qualitative data on the use of external ratings.

Scope of application: The table is mandatory for all banks that: (a) use the credit risk standardised
approach (or the simplified standardised approach); and (b) make use of external credit ratings for
their RWA calculation.

In order to provide meaningful information to users, the bank may choose not to disclose the
information requested in the table if the exposures and RWA amounts are negligible. It is however
required to explain why it considers the information not to be meaningful to users, including a
description of the portfolios concerned and the aggregate total RWA these portfolios represent.

Content: Qualitative information.

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible.

A. For portfolios that are risk-weighted under the standardised approach for credit risk, banks must
disclose the following information:

      Names of the external credit assessment institutions (ECAIs) and export credit agencies (ECAs)
(a)
      used by the bank, and the reasons for any changes over the reporting period;

(b)   The asset classes for which each ECAI or ECA is used;

      A description of the process used to transfer the issuer to issue credit ratings onto
(c)
      comparable assets in the banking book (see CRE21.9 to CRE21.11); and

      The alignment of the alphanumerical scale of each agency used with risk buckets (except
(d)   where the relevant supervisor publishes a standard mapping with which the bank has to
      comply).


Template CR4: Standardised approach - Credit risk exposure and credit
risk mitigation effects




Purpose: Illustrate the effect of CRM (comprehensive and simple approach) on standardised
approach capital requirements' calculations. RWA density provides a synthetic metric on riskiness
of each portfolio.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for banks using the standardised or the
simplified standardised approach.

For banks using other than the standardised approach for most of their credit exposures,
exposures and RWA amounts under the standardised approach may be negligible. In such
circumstances, and to provide only meaningful information to users, the bank may choose not to
disclose the template for the exposures treated under the standardised approach. The bank must
however explain why it considers the information not to be meaningful to users. The explanation
must include a description of the exposures included in the respective portfolios and the
aggregate total of RWA from such exposures.

Content: Regulatory exposure amounts.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed. (The columns cannot be altered. The rows reflect the asset classes as defined under
the Basel framework. Jurisdictions may amend the rows to reflect any differences in their
implementation of the standardised approach.)

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant change over the reporting period and the key drivers of
such changes.

     Exposures before CCF and CRM
Exposures post-CCF and CRM
RWA and RWA density
Asset classes
On-balance sheet
amount
Off-balance sheet
amount
On-balance sheet
amount
Off-balance sheet
amount
RWA
RWA density
1    Sovereigns and
     their central banks

2    Non-central
     government public
     sector entities

3    Multilateral
     development
     banks

4    Banks

5    Securities firms

6    Corporates

7    Regulatory retail
     portfolios

8    Secured by
     residential property

9    Secured by
     commercial real
     estate

10   Equity

11   Past-due loans

12   Higher-risk
     categories

13   Other assets

14   Total

Definitions

Rows:

Higher-risk categories: Banks must include the exposures included in CRE20.30 and CRE20.31 that
are not included in other regulatory portfolios (eg exposure weighted at 150% or higher risk
weights reflecting the higher risks associated with these assets). Banks' equity investments in funds
framework must not be reported in this template but only in Template OV1.

Other assets: refers to assets subject to specific risk weight as set out by CRE20.35 and to
significant investments in commercial entities that receive a 1250% risk weight according to CRE20.
33.

Columns:

Exposures before CCF and CRM - On-balance sheet amount: banks must disclose the regulatory
exposure amount (net of allowances and write-offs) under the regulatory scope of consolidation
gross of (ie before taking into account) the effect of credit risk mitigation techniques.

Exposures before CCF and CRM - Off-balance sheet amount: banks must disclose the exposure
value, gross of conversion factors and the effect of credit risk mitigation techniques under the
regulatory scope of consolidation.


Credit exposure post-CCF and post-CRM: This is the amount to which the capital requirements are
applied. It is a net credit equivalent amount, after having applied CRM techniques and CCF.

RWA density: Total risk-weighted assets/exposures post-CCF and post-CRM. The result of the ratio
must be expressed as a percentage.

Linkages across templates

The amount in [CR4:14/c+CR4:14/d] is equal to the amount in [CR5:14/j]



Template CR5: Standardised approach - exposures by asset classes and
risk weights




Purpose: Present the breakdown of credit risk exposures under the standardised approach by asset class and risk weight (corresponding to the
riskiness attributed to the exposure according to standardised approach).

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for banks using the standardised or the simplified standardised approach.

For banks using other than the standardised approach for most of their credit exposures, exposures and RWA amounts under the standardised
approach may be negligible. In such circumstances, and to provide only meaningful information to users, the bank may choose not to disclose
the template for the exposures treated under the standardised approach. The bank must however explain why it considers the information not
to be meaningful to users. The explanation must include a description of the exposures included in the respective portfolios and the aggregate
total of RWA from such exposures.

Content: Regulatory exposure values.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed. (Jurisdictions may amend the rows and columns to reflect any difference applied in their implementation of the standardised
approach. Columns may be adapted to fit the simplified standardised approach where it is applied.)

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative commentary to explain any significant changes
over the reporting period and the key drivers of such changes.


                                                                                                                        Total credit exposures amount (post CCF
     Asset classes                                                                                                      and post-CRM)

                               Risk weight
                                                                                                                        
                                               0%      10%     20%    35%     50%     75%    100%     150%    Others
                                                                                                                        
1    Sovereigns and their central banks

2    Non-central government public sector
     entities


3    Multilateral development banks

4    Banks

5    Securities firms

6    Corporates

7    Regulatory retail portfolios

8    Secured by residential property

9    Secured by commercial real estate

10   Equity

11   Past-due loans

12   Higher-risk categories

13   Other assets

14   Total

*Banks subject to the simplified standardised approach should indicate risk weights determined by the supervisory authority in the columns.

Definitions


Total credit exposure amount (post-CCF and CRM): the amount used for the capital requirements calculation (b
sheet amounts), therefore net of allowances and write-offs and after having applied CRM techniques and CCF but
relevant risk weights.

Past-due loans: past-due loans correspond to the unsecured portion of any loan past due for more than 90 days, as

Higher-risk categories: Banks must include in this row the exposures included in CRE20.30 and CRE20.31 tha
regulatory portfolios (eg exposure weighted at 150% or higher risk weight reflecting the higher risks associated w
reported in this row should not be reported in the rows above. Banks' equity investments in funds framework m
template but only in Template OV1.

Other assets: refers to assets subject to specific risk weight set out by CRE20.35 and to significant investment
receive a 1250% risk-weight according to CRE20.33.




Table CRE: Qualitative disclosure related to IRB models




Purpose: Provide additional information on IRB models used to compute RWA.

Scope of application: The table is mandatory for banks using A-IRB or F-IRB approaches for some
or all of their exposures.

To provide meaningful information to users, the bank must describe the main characteristics of the
models used at the group-wide level (according to the scope of regulatory consolidation) and
explain how the scope of models described was determined. The commentary must include the
percentage of RWA covered by the models for each of the bank's regulatory portfolios.

Content: Qualitative information.

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible.

Banks must provide the following information on their use of IRB models:

      Internal model development, controls and changes: role of the functions involved in the
(a)
      development, approval and subsequent changes of the credit risk models.

      Relationships between risk management function and internal audit function and procedure
(b)   to ensure the independence of the function in charge of the review of the models from the
      functions responsible for the development of the models.

(c)   Scope and main content of the reporting related to credit risk models.

      Scope of the supervisor's acceptance of approach.

      The "scope of the supervisor's acceptance of approach" refers to the scope of internal models
(d)
      approved by the supervisors in terms of entities within the group (if applicable), portfolios
      and exposure classes, with a breakdown between foundation IRB (F-IRB) and advanced IRB (A-
      IRB), if applicable.

      For each of the portfolios, the bank must indicate the part of exposure at default (EAD) within
(e)   the group (in percentage of total EAD) covered by standardised, F-IRB and A-IRB approach
      and the part of portfolios that are involved in a roll-out plan.

      The number of key models used with respect to each portfolio, with a brief discussion of the
(f)
      main differences among the models within the same portfolios.

      Description of the main characteristics of the approved models:

      (i) definitions, methods and data for estimation and validation of PD (eg how PDs are
      estimated for low default portfolios; if there are regulatory floors; the drivers for differences
      observed between PD and actual default rates at least for the last three periods);

      and where applicable:
(g)




    (ii) loss-given-default (LGD) (eg methods to calculate downturn LGD; how LGDs are estimated
    for low default portfolio; the time lapse between the default event and the closure of the
    exposure);

    (iii) CCFs, including assumptions employed in the derivation of these variables;




Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                                 1365/1626
Template CR6: IRB - Credit risk exposures by portfolio and PD range




Purpose: Provide main parameters used for the calculation of capital requirements for IRB models. The purpose of disclosing these parameters is
to enhance the transparency of banks' RWA calculations and the reliability of regulatory measures.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for banks using either the F-IRB or the A-IRB approach for some or all of their exposures.

Content: Columns (a) and (b) are based on accounting carrying values and columns (c) to (l) are regulatory values. All are based on the scope of
regulatory consolidation.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed. The columns, their contents and the PD scale in the rows cannot be altered, but the portfolio breakdown in the rows will be set at
the jurisdiction level to reflect exposure categories under local implementation of the IRB approaches. Where a bank makes use of both F-IRB and
A-IRB approaches, it must disclose one template for each approach.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative to explain the effect of credit derivatives on RWAs.

                        PD scale
Original
on-balance
sheet
gross exposure
Off-balance sheet
exposures pre CCF
Average CCF
EAD post CRM and post-CCF
Average PD
Number of obligors 
Average LGD 
Average maturity 
RWA
RWA density 
Expected loss
Provisions

Portfolio
               Sub-
               total

    Total (all
    portfolios)

Definitions

Rows

Portfolio X includes the following prudential portfolios for the F-IRB approach: (i) Sovereign; (ii) Banks; (iii) Corporate; (iv) Corporate - Specialised
Lending; (v) Equity (PD/LGD methods described in CRE31.37 to CRE31.45 and CRE20.34); (vi) Purchased receivables, and the following prudential

portfolios for the A-IRB approach: (i) Sovereign; (ii) Banks; (iii) Corporate; (iv) Corporate - Specialised Lending; (v) Equity (PD/LGD method as
described in CRE31.37 to CRE31.45 and CRE20.34); (vi) Retail - qualifying revolving (QRRE); (vii) Retail - Residential mortgage exposures; (viii) Retail
- SME; (ix) Other retail exposures; (x) Purchased receivables. Information on F-IRB and A-IRB portfolios, respectively, must be reported in two
separate templates.

Default: The data on defaulted exposures may be further broken down according to jurisdiction's definitions for categories of defaulted exposures.

Columns

PD scale: Exposures shall be broken down according to the PD scale used in the template instead of the PD scale used by banks in their RWA
calculation. Banks must map the PD scale they use in the RWA calculations into the PD scale provided in the template.

Original on-balance sheet gross exposure: amount of the on-balance sheet exposure gross of accounting provisions (before taking into account
the effect of credit risk mitigation techniques).

Off-balance sheet exposure pre conversion factor: exposure value without taking into account value adjustments and provisions, conversion factors
and the effect of credit risk mitigation techniques.

Average CCF: EAD post-conversion factor for off-balance sheet exposure to total off-balance sheet exposure pre conversion factor.

EAD post-CRM: the amount relevant for the capital requirements calculation.

Number of obligors: corresponds to the number of individual PDs in this band. Approximation (round number) is acceptable.

Average PD: obligor grade PD weighted by EAD.

Average LGD: the obligor grade LGD weighted by EAD. The LGD must be net of any CRM effect.

Average maturity: the obligor maturity in years weighted by EAD; this parameter needs to be filled in only when it is used for the RWA calculation.

RWA density: Total risk-weighted assets to EAD post-CRM.

EL: the expected losses as calculated according to CRE33.8 to CRE33.12 and CRE35.2 to CRE35.3;

Provisions: provisions calculated according to CRE35.4.


Template CR7: IRB - Effect on RWA of credit derivatives used as CRM
techniques



Purpose: Illustrate the effect of credit derivatives on the IRB approach capital requirements'
calculations. The pre-credit derivatives RWA before taking account of credit derivatives mitigation
effect has been selected to assess the impact of credit derivatives on RWA. This is irrespective of
how the CRM technique feeds into the RWA calculation.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for banks using the A-IRB and/or F-IRB
approaches for some or all of their exposures.

Content: Risk-weighted assets (subject to credit risk treatment).

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed.

Columns are fixed but the portfolio breakdown in the rows will be set at jurisdiction level to reflect
exposure categories required under local implementation of IRB approaches.

Accompanying narrative: Banks should supplement the template with a narrative commentary to
explain the effect of credit derivatives on the bank's RWA.


                                        pre-credit derivatives RWA                Actual RWA

1     Sovereign - F-IRB

2     Sovereign - A-IRB

3     Banks - F-IRB

4     Banks - A-IRB

5     Corporate - F-IRB

6     Corporate - A-IRB

7     Specialised lending - F-IRB

8     Specialised lending - A-IRB

9     Retail - qualifying revolving
      (QRRE)

10    Retail - residential mortgage
      exposures

11    Retail -SME

12    Other retail exposures

13    Equity - F-IRB

14    Equity - A-IRB

15    Purchased receivables - F-IRB

16    Purchased receivables - A-
      IRB

17    Total

Pre-credit derivatives RWA: hypothetical RWA calculated assuming the absence of recognition of
the credit derivative as a CRM technique.

Actual RWA: RWA calculated taking into account the CRM technique impact of the credit derivative.




Template CR8: RWA flow statements of credit risk exposures under IRB

Purpose: Present a flow statement explaining variations in the credit RWA determined under an
IRB approach.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for banks using the A-IRB and/or F-IRB
approaches.

Content: Risk-weighted assets corresponding to credit risk only (counterparty credit risk excluded).
Changes in RWA amounts over the reporting period for each of the key drivers should be based on
a bank's reasonable estimation of the figure.

Frequency: Quarterly.

Format: Fixed. Columns and rows 1 and 9 cannot be altered. Banks may add additional rows
between rows 7 and 8 to disclose additional elements that contribute significantly to RWA
variations.

Accompanying narrative: Banks should supplement the template with a narrative commentary to
explain any significant change over the reporting period and the key drivers of such changes.



                                                                                             RWA
                                                                                            amounts

1     RWA as at end of previous reporting period

2     Asset size

3     Asset quality

4     Model updates

5     Methodology and policy

6     Acquisitions and disposals

7     Foreign exchange movements

8     Other

9     RWA as at end of reporting period

Asset size: organic changes in book size and composition (including origination of new businesses
and maturing loans) but excluding changes in book size due to acquisitions and disposal of entities.

Asset quality: changes in the assessed quality of the bank's assets due to changes in borrower risk,
such as rating grade migration or similar effects.

Model updates: changes due to model implementation, changes in model scope, or any changes
intended to address model weaknesses.

Methodology and policy: changes due to methodological changes in calculations driven by
regulatory policy changes, including both revisions to existing regulations and new regulations.

Acquisitions and disposals: changes in book sizes due to acquisitions and disposal of entities.

Foreign exchange movements: changes driven by market movements such as foreign exchange
movements.

Other: this category must be used to capture changes that cannot be attributed to any other
category. Banks should add additional rows between rows 7 and 8 to disclose other material drivers
of RWA movements over the reporting period.


Template CR9: IRB - Backtesting of probability of default (PD) per
portfolio




Purpose: Provide backtesting data to validate the reliability of PD calculations. In particular, the template compares the PD used in IRB capital
calculations with the effective default rates of bank obligors. A minimum five-year average annual default rate is required to compare the PD
with a "more stable" default rate, although a bank may use a longer historical period that is consistent with its actual risk management
practices.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for banks using the A-IRB and/or F-IRB approaches. Where a bank makes use of a F-IRB
approach for certain exposures and an A-IRB approach for others, it must disclose two separate sets of portfolio breakdown in separate
templates.

To provide meaningful information to users on the backtesting of their internal models through this template, the bank must include in this
template the key models used at the group-wide level (according to the scope of regulatory consolidation) and explain how the scope of
models described was determined. The commentary must include the percentage of RWA covered by the models for which backtesting results
are shown here for each of the bank's regulatory portfolios.

The models to be disclosed refer to any model, or combination of models, approved by the supervisor, for the generation of the PD used for
calculating capital requirements under the IRB approach. This may include the model that is used to assign a risk rating to an obligor, and/or
the model that calibrates the internal ratings to the PD scale.

Content: Modelling parameters used in IRB calculation.

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible.

The portfolio breakdown in the rows will be set at jurisdiction level to reflect exposure categories required under local implementations of IRB
approaches.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative commentary to explain any significant changes
over the reporting period and the key drivers of such changes. Banks may wish to supplement the template when disclosing the amount of
exposure and the number of obligors whose defaulted exposures have been cured in the year.

Portfolio 
PD Range 
External rating equivalent 
Weighed average PD 
Arithmetic average PD by obligors 
Number of obligor 
End of previous year 
End of the year 
Defaulted obligors in the year 
of which: new defaulted obligors in the year 
Average historical annual default rate 
* The dimension Portfolio X includes the following prudential portfolios for the F-IRB approach:

(i) Sovereign; (ii) Banks; (iii) Corporate; (iv) Corporate - Specialised lending; (v) Equity (PD/LGD method); (vi) Purchased receivables, and the
following prudential portfolios for the A-IRB approach:

(i) Sovereign; (ii) Banks; (iii) Corporate; (iv) Corporate - Specialised Lending; (v) Equity (PD/LGD method); (vi) Retail - QRRE; (vii) Retail -
Residential mortgage exposures; (viii) Retail - SME; (ix) Other retail exposures; (x) Purchased receivables.

External rating equivalent: refers to external ratings that may, in some jurisdictions, be available for retail borrowers. This may, for instance, be the
case for small or medium-sized entities (SMEs) that fit the requirements to be included in the retail portfolios which in some jurisdictions could
have an external rating, or a credit score or a range of credit scores provided by a consumer credit bureau. One column has to be filled in for each
rating agency authorised for prudential purposes in the jurisdictions where the bank operates. However, where such external ratings are not
available, they need not be provided.

Weighted average PD: the same as reported in Template CR6. These are the estimated PDs assigned by the internal model authorised under
the IRB approaches. The PD values are EAD-weighted and the "weight" is the EAD at the beginning of the period.

Arithmetic average PD by obligors: PD within range by number of obligor within the range. The average PD by obligors is the simple average:
Arithmetic average PD = sum of PDs of all accounts (transactions) / number of accounts.


Number of obligors: two sets of information are required: (i) the number of obligors at the end of the previous year; (ii) the number of obligors
at the end of the year subject to reporting;

Defaulted obligors in the year: number of defaulted obligors during the year; of which: new obligors defaulted in the year: number of obligors
having defaulted during the last 12-month period that were not funded at the end of the previous financial year;

Average historical annual default rate: the five-year average of the annual default rate (obligors at the beginning of each year that are defaulted
during that year/total obligor hold at the beginning of the year) is a minimum. The bank may use a longer historical period that is consistent
with the bank's actual risk management practices. The disclosed average historical annual default rate disclosed should be before the
application of the margin of conservatism.



Template CR10: IRB (specialised lending and equities under the simple
risk-weight method)




Purpose: Provide quantitative disclosures of banks' specialised lending and equity exposures using the simple risk-weight approach.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for banks using one of the approaches included in the template. The breakdown by
regulatory categories included in the template is indicative as the data included in the template are provided by banks according to applicable
domestic regulation.

Content: Carrying values, exposure amounts and RWA.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Flexible. (Jurisdictions may notably amend the rows to reflect regulatory categories in their local implementation of the approach.)

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative commentary to explain any significant changes
over the reporting period and the key drivers of such changes.

                                                              Specialised lending

                                                               Other than HVCRE

                                                 
Regulatory categories

Remaining maturity
On-balance sheet
amount
Off-balance sheet
amount
Risk weight 
Exposure amount 
PF
OF
CF IPRE
 Total 
RWA 
Expected losses
Strong         Less than 2.5 years                                    50%

               Equal to or more than 2.5 years                             70%
               

Good           Less than 2.5 years                                    70%


               Equal to or more than 2.5  years                       90%
               

Satisfactory                                                    115%

Weak                                                            250%

Default                                                         -

Total

                                                               HVCRE

                                        Regulatory categories 
Remaining maturity 
On-balance sheet amount 
Off-balance sheet amount 
RW 
Exposure amount 
RWA
Expected losses 

Strong         Less than 2.5 years                              70%

               Equal to or more than 2.5                        95%
               years

Good           Less than 2.5 years                              95%

               Equal to or more than 2.5                        120%
               years

Satisfactory                                                    140%

Weak                                                            250%



Default                                                               -

Total

                                                 Equities under the simple risk-weight approach

                                            Categories 
On-balance sheet amount 
Off-balance sheet amount 
Risk Weight 
Exposure amount 
RWA

Exchange-traded equity exposures                                      190%

Private equity exposures                                              290%

Other equity exposures                                                370%

Total

Definitions

HVCRE: High-volatility commercial real estate.

On-balance sheet amount: banks must disclose the amount of exposure (net of allowances and write-offs) under the regulatory scope of
consolidation.

Off-balance sheet amount: banks must disclose the exposure value without taking into account conversion factors and the effect of credit risk
mitigation techniques.

Exposure amount: the amount relevant for the capital requirement's calculation, therefore after having applied CRM techniques and CCF.

Expected losses: amount of expected losses calculated according to CRE33.8 to CRE33.12.



PF: Project finance

OF: Object finance

CF: Commodities finance

IPRE: Income producing real estate




                                 DIS42
                                 Counterparty credit risk
                                 This chapter describes counterparty credit risk
                                 and credit valuation adjustment disclosure
                                 requirements.


                                 Introduction
42.1   DIS42 includes all exposures in the banking book and trading book that are
       subject to a counterparty credit risk (CCR) charge, including the credit valuation
       adjustment (CVA) capital charge and charges applied to exposures to central
       counterparties (CCPs).


      The relevant sections of the Basel framework are in CRE50 to CRE55
                   and MAR50.


42.2   The disclosure requirements under DIS42 are:

       (1) Table CCRA – Qualitative disclosure related to CCR

       (2) Template CCR1 – Analysis of CCR exposures by approach

       (3) Template CCR2 – CVA capital charge

       (4) Template CCR3 – Standardised approach – CCR exposures by regulatory
           portfolio and risk weights

       (5) Template CCR4 – Internal ratings-based (IRB) approach – CCR exposures by
           portfolio and probability-of-default (PD) scale

       (6) Template CCR5 – Composition of collateral for CCR exposures

       (7) Template CCR6 – Credit derivatives exposures

       (8) Template CCR7 – RWA flow statements of CCR exposures under the internal
           models method (IMM)

       (9) Template CCR8 – Exposures to central counterparties



     FAQ
     FAQ1      The “purpose” of Template CCR5 asks for a breakdown of all types of
               collateral posted or received. The content section, however, asks for
               collateral used. These numbers differ as certain transactions are over-
               collateralised (ie >100% of exposure) and therefore not all collateral
               would be used for risk mitigation. Should the template include all
               collateral posted/received or just collateral that is applied?

               The numbers reported in Template CCR5 should be the total collateral
               posted/received (ie not limited to the collateral that is applied/used for
               risk mitigation). The purpose of the template is to provide a view on
               the collateral posted/received rather than the value accounted for
               within the regulatory computation. If the bank wishes to disclose the
               collateral eligible for credit mitigation, it may do so using an
               accompanying narrative.

     FAQ2      Template CCR7 refers to an RWA flow on IMM exposures. Row 4
               (Model updates – IMM only) and row 5 (Methodology and policy – IMM
               only) are specifically to include only model and methodology/policy
               changes relating to the IMM exposures model. Where in the template
               would changes to the IRB models that result in changes in risk weights
               for positions under the IMM be reported?

               Template CCR7 is consistent with Template OV1, which requests a split
               by exposure at default methodology and not by risk weighting
               methodology. Banks are recommended to add rows to report any
               changes relating to risk weighting methodology if they deem them
               useful. The row breakdown is flexible and intends to depict all the
               significant drivers of changes for the RWA under CCR. Specific rows
               should be inserted when changes to the IRB model result in changes to
               the RWA of instruments under counterparty credit risk whose exposure
               value is determined based on the IMM.



Table CCRA: Qualitative disclosure related to CCR

Purpose: Describe the main characteristics of counterparty credit risk management (eg operating
limits, use of guarantees and other credit risk mitigation (CRM) techniques, impacts of own credit
downgrading).

Scope of application: The table is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Qualitative information.

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible.

Banks must provide risk management objectives and policies related to counterparty credit risk,
including:

      The method used to assign the operating limits defined in terms of internal capital for
(a)
      counterparty credit exposures and for CCP exposures;

      Policies relating to guarantees and other risk mitigants and assessments concerning
(b)
      counterparty risk, including exposures towards CCPs;

(c)   Policies with respect to wrong-way risk exposures;

      The impact in terms of the amount of collateral that the bank would be required to provide
(d)
      given a credit rating downgrade.


Template CCR1: Analysis of CCR exposures by approach

Purpose: Provide a comprehensive view of the methods used to calculate counterparty credit risk
regulatory requirements and the main parameters used within each method.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Regulatory exposures, RWA and parameters used for RWA calculations for all exposures
subject to the counterparty credit risk framework (excluding CVA charges or exposures cleared
through a CCP).

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant changes over the reporting period and the key drivers of
such changes.


Replacement cost
Potential future exposure
Effective EPE
Alpha used for computing regulatory
EAD
EAD post-CRM
RWA


1   SA-CCR (for                                                     1.4
    derivatives)

2   Internal models
    method (for
    derivatives and
    securities financing
    transactions, or
    SFTs)

3   Simple Approach
    for credit risk
    mitigation (for SFTs)

4   Comprehensive
    Approach for credit
    risk mitigation (for
    SFTs)

5   Value-at-risk (VaR)
    for SFTs

6   Total

Definitions

SA-CCR (for derivatives): Banks in jurisdictions which have yet to implement the SA-CCR should
report in row 1 information corresponding to the Current Exposures Method and the Standardised
Method

Replacement Cost (RC): For trades that are not subject to margining requirements, the RC is the loss
that would occur if a counterparty were to default and was closed out of its transactions
immediately. For margined trades, it is the loss that would occur if a counterparty were to default at
present or at a future date, assuming that the closeout and replacement of transactions occur
instantaneously. However, closeout of a trade upon a counterparty default may not be
instantaneous. The replacement cost under the standardised approach for measuring counterparty
credit risk exposures is described in CRE52.

Potential Future Exposure is any potential increase in exposure between the present and up to the
end of the margin period of risk. The potential future exposure for the standardised approach is
described in CRE50.

Effective Expected Positive Exposure (EPE) is the weighted average over time of the effective
expected exposure over the first year, or, if all the contracts in the netting set mature before one
year, over the time period of the longest-maturity contract in the netting set where the weights are
the proportion that an individual expected exposure represents of the entire time interval (see
CRE50).

EAD post-CRM: exposure at default. This refers to the amount relevant for the capital requirements
calculation having applied CRM techniques, credit valuation adjustments according to CRE51.11
and specific wrong-way adjustments (see CRE53).

Template CCR2: Credit valuation adjustment (CVA) capital charge




Purpose: Provide the CVA regulatory calculations (with a breakdown by standardised and
advanced approaches).

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks with exposures subject to CVA
capital charges.

Content: Risk-weighted assets and corresponding exposures at default.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant changes over the reporting period and the key drivers of
such changes.


                                                             EAD post-CRM             RWA


    Total portfolios subject to the Advanced CVA capital
    charge

1   (i) VaR component (including the 3×multiplier)

2   (ii) Stressed VaR component (including the
    3×multiplier)

3   All portfolios subject to the Standardised CVA capital
    charge

4   Total subject to the CVA capital charge

Definitions

Advanced CVA capital charge: the amount of the advanced capital charge calculated according to
MAR50.

Standardised CVA capital charge: the amount of the standardised capital charge calculated
according to MAR50 or with the definition provided in domestic regulation if use of external credit
ratings is not permitted.

EAD post-CRM: exposure at default. This refers to the amount used for the capital requirements
calculation. It is therefore the amount of the credit valuation adjustments according to CRE51.11
and of the specific wrong-way adjustments (see CRE53), having applied CRM techniques.


Template CCR3: Standardised approach - CCR exposures by regulatory
portfolio and risk weights




Purpose: Provide a breakdown of counterparty credit risk exposures calculated according to the
standardised approach: by portfolio (type of counterparties) and by risk weight (riskiness attributed
according to standardised approach).

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks using the credit risk standardised
approach to compute RWA for counterparty credit risk exposures, irrespective of the CCR
approach used to determine exposure at default.

If a bank deems that the information requested in this template is not meaningful to users because
the exposures and RWA amounts are negligible, the bank may choose not to disclose the
template. The bank is, however, required to explain in a narrative commentary why it considers the
information not to be meaningful to users, including a description of the exposures in the
portfolios concerned and the aggregate total of RWA amount from such exposures.

Content: Credit exposure amounts.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed.

(The rows and columns may be amended at jurisdiction level to reflect different exposure
categories required as a consequence of the local implementation of the standardised approach.)

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant changes over the reporting period and the key drivers of
such changes.


               Risk weight                                                              Total
                                  0%   10%    20%    50%    75%    100% 150% Others          credit
Regulatory portfolio                                                                      exposure

Sovereigns

Non-central government
public sector entities

Multilateral development
banks

Banks

Securities firms

Corporates

Regulatory retail portfolios

Other assets


Total

* The breakdown by risk weight and regulatory portfolio included in the template is for illustrative
purposes. Banks may complete the template with the breakdown of asset classes according to the
local implementation of the Basel framework.

** Banks subject to the simplified standardised approach should indicate risk weights determined by
the supervisory authority in the columns.

Total credit exposure: the amount relevant for the capital requirements calculation, having applied
CRM techniques.

Other assets: the amount excludes exposures to CCPs, which are reported in Template CCR8.




                                               Template CCR4: IRB - CCR exposures by portfolio and PD scale




Purpose: Provide all relevant parameters used for the calculation of counterparty credit risk capital
requirements for IRB models.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for banks using an advanced IRB (A-IRB) or
foundation IRB (F-IRB) approach to compute RWA for counterparty credit risk exposures, whatever
CCR approach is used to determine exposure at default. Where a bank makes use of an FIRB
approach for certain exposures and an AIRB approach for others, it must disclose two separate sets
of portfolio breakdown in two separate templates.

To provide meaningful information, the bank must include in this template the key models used at
the group-wide level (according to the scope of regulatory consolidation) and explain how the
scope of models described in this template was determined. The commentary must include the
percentage of RWAs covered by the models shown here for each of the bank's regulatory portfolios.

Content: RWA and parameters used in RWA calculations for exposures subject to the counterparty
credit risk framework (excluding CVA charges or exposures cleared through a CCP) and where the
credit risk approach used to compute RWA is an IRB approach.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed. Columns and PD scales in the rows are fixed. However, the portfolio breakdown
shown in the rows will be set by each jurisdiction to reflect the exposure categories required under
local implementations of IRB approaches.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant changes over the reporting period and the key drivers of
such changes.



Definitions

Rows

Portfolio X refers to the following prudential portfolios for the foundation IRB (F-IRB) approach: (i)
Sovereign; (ii) Banks; (iii) Corporate; and the following prudential portfolios for the advanced IRB (A-
IRB) approach: (i) Sovereign; (ii) Banks; (iii) Corporate. The information on F-IRB and A-IRB
portfolios must be reported in separate templates.

Default: The data on defaulted exposures may be further broken down according to a jurisdiction's
definitions for categories of defaulted exposures.


Columns

PD scale: Exposures shall be broken down according to the PD scale used in the template instead of
the PD scale used by banks in their RWA calculation. Banks must map the PD scale they use in the
RWA calculations to the PD scale provided in the template;

EAD post-CRM: exposure at default. The amount relevant for the capital requirements calculation,
having applied the CCR approach and CRM techniques, but gross of accounting provisions;

Number of obligors: corresponds to the number of individual PDs in this band. Approximation
(round number) is acceptable;

Average PD: obligor grade PD weighted by EAD;

Average loss-given-default (LGD): the obligor grade LGD weighted by EAD. The LGD must be net of
any CRM effect;

Average maturity: the obligor maturity weighted by EAD;

RWA density: Total RWA to EAD post-CRM.



Template CCR5: Composition of collateral for CCR exposure




Purpose: Provide a breakdown of all types of collateral posted or received by banks to support or reduce the coun
exposures related to derivative transactions or to SFTs, including transactions cleared through a CCP.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Carrying values of collateral used in derivative transactions or SFTs, whether or not the transactions are cl
whether or not the collateral is posted to a CCP.

Please refer to DIS 99.2 for an illustration on how the template should be completed.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Flexible (the columns cannot be altered but the rows are flexible).

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative commentary to explain
over the reporting period and the key drivers of such changes.




                                                                                  Collateral used in SFTs
                            Collateral used in derivative transactions
                                                                                         

                     Fair value of collateral received        Fair value of posted  collateral        Fair       value of collateral  received    Fair
                                                               value of collateral
                                                                                   posted
                   Segregated    Unsegregated     Segregated    Unsegregated       

Cash -
domestic
currency

Cash - other
currencies

Domestic
sovereign debt

Other
sovereign debt

Government
agency debt

Corporate
bonds

Equity
securities

Other collateral

Total

Definitions

Collateral used is defined as referring to both legs of the transaction. Example: a bank transfers
securities to a third party, and the third party in turn posts collateral to the bank. The bank reports
both legs of the transaction. The collateral received is reported in column (e), while the collateral
posted by the bank is reported in column (f). The fair value of collateral received or posted must be
after any haircut. This means the value of collateral received will be reduced by the haircut (ie C(1 -
Hs)) and collateral posted will be increased after the haircut (ie E(1 + Hs)).

Segregated refers to collateral which is held in a bankruptcy-remote manner according to the
description included in CRE54.18 to CRE54.23.

Unsegregated refers to collateral that is not held in a bankruptcy-remote manner.


Domestic sovereign debt refers to the sovereign debt of the jurisdiction of incorporation of the
bank, or, when disclosures are made on a consolidated basis, the jurisdiction of incorporation of the
parent company.

Domestic currency refers to items of collateral that are denominated in the bank's (consolidated)
reporting currency and not the transaction currency.




Template CCR6: Credit derivatives exposures
Purpose: Illustrate the extent of a bank's exposures to credit derivative transactions broken down
between derivatives bought or sold.

Scope of application: This template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Notional derivative amounts (before any netting) and fair values.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Flexible (the columns are fixed but the rows are flexible).

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant changes over the reporting period and the key drivers of
such changes.



          

                                         Protection bought   Protection sold

Notionals

    Single-name credit default swaps

    Index credit default swaps

    Total return swaps

    Credit options

    Other credit derivatives

Total notionals

Fair values


    Positive fair value (asset)

    Negative fair value (liability)




Template CCR7: RWA flow statements of CCR exposures under the
internal models method (IMM)

Purpose: Present a flow statement explaining changes in counterparty credit risk RWA determined
under the Internal Model Method for counterparty credit risk (derivatives and SFTs).

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks using the IMM for measuring
exposure at default of exposures subject to the counterparty credit risk framework, irrespective of
the credit risk approach used to compute RWA from exposures at default.

Content: Risk-weighted assets corresponding to counterparty credit risk (credit risk shown in CR8
is excluded). Changes in RWA amounts over the reporting period for each of the key drivers should
be based on a bank's reasonable estimation of the figure.

Frequency: Quarterly.

Format: Fixed. Columns and rows 1 and 9 are fixed. Banks may add additional rows between rows 7
and 8 to disclose additional elements that contribute to RWA variations.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant change over the reporting period and the key drivers of such
changes.



                                                                                          Amounts

1     RWA as at end of previous reporting period

2     Asset size

3     Credit quality of counterparties

4     Model updates (IMM only)

5     Methodology and policy (IMM only)

6     Acquisitions and disposals

7     Foreign exchange movements

8     Other

9     RWA as at end of current reporting period

Asset size: organic changes in book size and composition (including origination of new businesses
and maturing exposures) but excluding changes in book size due to acquisitions and disposal of
entities.

Credit quality of counterparties: changes in the assessed quality of the bank's counterparties as
measured under the credit risk framework, whatever approach the bank uses. This row also includes
potential changes due to IRB models when the bank uses an IRB approach.

Model updates: changes due to model implementation, changes in model scope, or any changes
intended to address model weaknesses. This row addresses only changes in the IMM model.

Methodology and policy: changes due to methodological changes in calculations driven by
regulatory policy changes, such as new regulations (only in the IMM model).

Acquisitions and disposals: changes in book sizes due to acquisitions and disposal of entities.

Foreign exchange movements: changes driven by changes in foreign exchange rates.

Other: this category is intended to be used to capture changes that cannot be attributed to the
above categories. Banks should add additional rows between rows 7 and 8 to disclose other
material drivers of RWA movements over the reporting period.


Template CCR8: Exposures to central counterparties




Purpose: Provide a comprehensive picture of the bank's exposures to central counterparties. In
particular, the template includes all types of exposures (due to operations, margins, contributions
to default funds) and related capital requirements.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Exposures at default and risk-weighted assets corresponding to exposures to central
counterparties.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed. Banks are requested to provide a breakdown of the exposures by central
counterparties (qualifying, as defined below, or not qualifying).

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant changes over the reporting period and the key drivers of
such changes.


                                                      EAD (post-CRM)                  RWA

1    Exposures to qualifying CCPs (QCCPs)
     (total)

2    Exposures for trades at QCCPs (excluding
     initial margin and default fund
     contributions); of which

3    (i) over-the-counter (OTC) derivatives

4    (ii) Exchange-traded derivatives

5    (iii) Securities financing transactions

6    (iv) Netting sets where cross-product
     netting has been approved

7    Segregated initial margin

8    Non-segregated initial margin

9    Pre-funded default fund contributions

10   Unfunded default fund contributions

11   Exposures to non-QCCPs (total)

12     Exposures for trades at non-QCCPs
     (excluding initial margin and default fund
     contributions); of which

13   (i) OTC derivatives

14   (ii) Exchange-traded derivatives

15   (iii) Securities financing transactions

16   (iv) Netting sets where cross-product
     netting has been approved

17   Segregated initial margin

18   Non-segregated initial margin

19   Pre-funded default fund contributions

20   Unfunded default fund contributions

Definitions

Exposures to central counterparties: This includes any trades where the economic effect is
equivalent to having a trade with the CCP (eg a direct clearing member acting as an agent or a
principal in a client-cleared trade). These trades are described in CRE54.7 to CRE54.23.

EAD post-CRM: exposure at default. The amount relevant for the capital requirements calculation,
having applied CRM techniques, credit valuation adjustments according to CRE51.11 and specific
wrong-way adjustments (see CRE53).

A qualifying central counterparty (QCCP) is an entity that is licensed to operate as a CCP (including
a licence granted by way of confirming an exemption), and is permitted by the appropriate
regulator/overseer to operate as such with respect to the products offered. This is subject to the
provision that the CCP is based and prudentially supervised in a jurisdiction where the relevant
regulator/overseer has established, and publicly indicated, that it applies to the CCP on an
ongoing basis, domestic rules and regulations that are consistent with the Committee on
Payments and Market Infrastructures and International Organization of Securities Commissions'
Principles for Financial Market Infrastructures. See CRE54 for the comprehensive definition and
associated criteria.

Initial margin means a clearing member's or client's funded collateral posted to the CCP to
mitigate the potential future credit exposure of the CCP to the clearing member arising from the
possible future change in the value of their transactions. For the purposes of this template, initial
margin does not include contributions to a CCP for mutualised loss-sharing arrangements (ie in
cases where a CCP uses initial margin to mutualise losses among the clearing members, it will be
treated as a default fund exposure).

Prefunded default fund contributions are prefunded clearing member contributions towards, or
underwriting of, a CCP's mutualised loss-sharing arrangements.


Unfunded default fund contributions are unfunded clearing member contributions towards, or
underwriting of, a CCP's mutualised loss-sharing arrangements. If a bank is not a clearing member
but a client of a clearing member, it should include its exposures to unfunded default fund
contributions if applicable. Otherwise, banks should leave this row empty and explain the reason in
the accompanying narrative.

Segregated refers to collateral which is held in a bankruptcy-remote manner according to the
description included in CRE54.18 to CRE54.23.

Unsegregated refers to collateral that is not held in a bankruptcy-remote manner.


                DIS43
                                 Securitisation
                                 This chapter describes the disclosure
                                 requirements applying to securitisation
                                 exposures.
Introduction
43.1   The scope of DIS43:

       (1) covers all securitisation exposures in Table SECA and in templates SEC1 and
           SEC2;

       (2) focuses on banking book securitisation exposures subject to capital charges
           according to the securitisation framework in templates SEC3 and SEC4; and

       (3) excludes capital charges related to securitisation positions in the trading
           book that are reported in DIS50.


Unless stated otherwise, all terms used in DIS43 are used consistently
                   with the definitions in CRE40.

 Securitisation refers to the definition of what constitutes a
                   securitisation under the Basel framework. Securitisation exposures
                   correspond to securitisation exposures as defined in the Basel
                   framework. According to this framework, securitisation exposures can
                   include, but are not restricted to, the following: asset-backed securities,
                   mortgage-backed securities, credit enhancements, liquidity facilities,
                   interest rate or currency swaps, credit derivatives and tranched cover as
                   described in CRE22. Reserve accounts, such as cash collateral accounts,
                   recorded as an asset by the originating bank must also be treated as
                   securitisation exposures. Securitisation exposures refer to retained or
                   purchased exposures and not to underlying pools.


43.2   Only securitisation exposures that the bank treats under the securitisation
       framework (CRE40 to CRE44) are disclosed in templates SEC3 and SEC4. For
       banks acting as originators, this implies that the criteria for risk transfer
       recognition as described in CRE40.24 to CRE40.29 are met. Conversely, all
       securitisation exposures, including those that do not meet the risk transfer
       recognition criteria, are reported in templates SEC1 and SEC2. As a result,
       templates SEC1 and SEC2 may include exposures that are subject to capital
       requirements according to both the credit risk and market risk frameworks and
       that are also included in other parts of the Pillar 3 report. The purpose is to
       provide a comprehensive view of banks' securitisation activities. There is no
       double-counting of capital requirements as templates SEC3 and SEC4 are limited
       to exposures subject to the securitisation framework.



43.3   The disclosure requirements under DIS43 are:

       (1) Table SECA – Qualitative disclosure requirements related to securitisation
           exposures

       (2) Template SEC1 – Securitisation exposures in the banking book

       (3) Template SEC2 – Securitisation exposures in the trading book

       (4) Template SEC3 – Securitisation exposures in the banking book and
           associated regulatory capital requirements – bank acting as originator or as
           sponsor

       (5) Template SEC4 – Securitisation exposures in the banking book and
           associated capital requirements – bank acting as investor


       FAQ
       FAQ1       Template SEC1 requires the disclosure of “carrying values”. Is there a
                  direct link between columns (d), (h) and (l) of Template SEC1 and
                  column (e) of Template LI1?

                  Reconciliation is not possible when Template SEC1 presents
                  securitisation exposures within and outside the securitisation
                  framework together. However, when banks choose to disclose Template
                  SEC1 and SEC2 separately for securitisation exposures within the
                  securitisation framework and outside that framework, the following
                  reconciliation is possible: the sum of on-balance sheet assets and
                  liabilities included in columns (d), (h) and (l) of Template SEC1 is equal
                  to the amounts disclosed in column (e) of Template LI1.

       FAQ2       Should institutions disclose RWA before or after the application of the
                  cap?

                  RWA figures disclosed in Templates SEC3 and SEC4 should be before
                  application of the cap, as it is useful for users to compare exposures
                  and risk-weighted assets (RWA) before application of the cap. Columns
                  (a)–(m) in Templates SEC3 and SEC4 should be reported prior to
                  application of the cap, while columns (n)–(q) should be reported after
                  application of the cap. RWA after application of the cap are disclosed
                  in Template OV1.



Table SECA: Qualitative disclosure requirements related to
securitisation exposures




 Purpose: Provide qualitative information on a bank's strategy and risk management with respect
 to its securitisation activities.

 Scope of application: The table is mandatory for all banks with securitisation exposures.

 Content: Qualitative information.

 Frequency: Annually.

 Format: Flexible.

Qualitative disclosures

(A) Banks must describe their risk management objectives and policies for securitisation activities
and main features of these activities according to the framework below. If a bank holds
securitisation positions reflected both in the regulatory banking book and in the regulatory trading
book, the bank must describe each of the following points by distinguishing activities in each of the
regulatory books.

         The bank's objectives in relation to securitisation and re-securitisation activity, including
         the extent to which these activities transfer credit risk of the underlying securitised
(a)
         exposures away from the bank to other entities, the type of risks assumed and the types of
         risks retained.

         The bank must provide a list of:


                special purpose entities (SPEs) where the bank acts as sponsor (but not as an
                originator such as an Asset Backed Commercial Paper (ABCP) conduit), indicating
                whether the bank consolidates the SPEs into its scope of regulatory consolidation. A
                bank would generally be considered a "sponsor" if it, in fact or in substance,
(b)             manages or advises the programme, places securities into the market, or provides
                liquidity and/or credit enhancements. The programme may include, for example,
                ABCP conduit programmes and structured investment vehicles.
                affiliated entities (i) that the bank manages or advises and (ii) that invest either in the
                securitisation exposures that the bank has securitised or in SPEs that the bank
                sponsors.
                a list of entities to which the bank provides implicit support and the associated
                capital impact for each of them (as required in CRE40.14 and CRE40.49.

         Summary of the bank's accounting policies for securitisation activities. Where relevant,
(c)      banks are expected to distinguish securitisation exposures from re-securitisation exposures.

         If applicable, the names of external credit assessment institution (ECAIs) used for
(d)
         securitisations and the types of securitisation exposure for which each agency is used.

         If applicable, describe the process for implementing the Basel internal assessment
         approach (IAA). The description should include:



             structure of the internal assessment process and relation between internal
             assessment and external ratings, including information on ECAIs as referenced in
             item (d) of this table.
(e)
             control mechanisms for the internal assessment process including discussion of
             independence, accountability, and internal assessment process review.
             the exposure type to which the internal assessment process is applied; and stress
             factors used for determining credit enhancement levels, by exposure type. For
             example, credit cards, home equity, auto, and securitisation exposures detailed by
             underlying exposure type and security type (eg residential mortgage-backed
             securities, commercial mortgage-backed securities, asset-backed securities,
             collateralised debt obligations) etc.

       Banks must describe the use of internal assessment other than for SEC-IAA capital
(f)
       purposes.


Template SEC1: Securitisation exposures in the banking book




Purpose: Present a bank's securitisation exposures in its banking book.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks with securitisation exposures in the banking book.

Content: Carrying values. In this template, securitisation exposures include securitisation exposures even where criteria for recognition of risk
transference are not met.

Frequency: Semi-annually.

Format: Flexible. Banks may in particular modify the breakdown and order proposed in rows if another breakdown (eg whether or not criteria
for recognition of risk transference are met) would be more appropriate to reflect their activities. Originating and sponsoring activities may be
presented together.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative commentary to explain any significant changes
over the reporting period and the key drivers of such changes.


                                   Bank acts as originator                      Bank acts as sponsor                       Banks acts as investor

                                      Traditional 
Of which simple, transparent and comparable (STC) 
Synthetic 
Sub-total 
Traditional 
Of which STC 
Synthetic 
Sub-total 
Traditional 
Of which STC 
Synthetic 
Sub-total
1   Retail (total)

    - of which

2   residential
    mortgage

3   credit card

4   other retail
    exposures

5   re-
    securitisation

6   Wholesale
    (total)

    - of which

7   loans to
    corporates



8    commercial
     mortgage

9    lease and
     receivables

10   other
     wholesale

11   re-
     securitisation

Definitions

(i) When the "bank acts as originator" the securitisation exposures are the retained positions, even where not eligible for the securitisation
framework due to the absence of significant and effective risk transfer (which may be presented separately).

(ii) When "the bank acts as sponsor", the securitisation exposures include exposures to commercial paper conduits to which the bank provides
programme-wide enhancements, liquidity and other facilities. Where the bank acts both as originator and sponsor, it must avoid double-
counting. In this regard, the bank can merge the two columns of "bank acts as originator" and "bank acts as sponsor" and use "bank acts as
originator/sponsor" columns.

(iii) Securitisation exposures when "the bank acts as an investor" are the investment positions purchased in third-party deals.

Synthetic transactions: if the bank has purchased protection it must report the net exposure amounts to which it is exposed under columns
originator/sponsor (ie the amount that is not secured). If the bank has sold protection, the exposure amount of the credit protection must be
reported in the "investor" column.

Re-securitisation: all securitisation exposures related to re-securitisation must be completed in rows "re-securitisation", and not in the preceding
rows (by type of underlying asset) which contain only securitisation exposures other than re-securitisation.


Template SEC2: Securitisation exposures in the trading book



    Purpose: Present a bank's securitisation exposures in its trading book.

    Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks with securitisation exposures in the trading book. In this template,
    securitisation exposures include securitisation exposures even where criteria for recognition of risk transference are not met.

    Content: Carrying values.

    Frequency: Semi-annually.

    Format: Flexible. Banks may in particular modify the breakdown and order proposed in rows if another breakdown (eg whether or not criteria
    for recognition of risk transference are met) would be more appropriate to reflect their activities. Originating and sponsoring activities may be
    presented together.

    Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative commentary to explain any significant changes
    over the reporting period and the key drivers of such changes.

                                 Bank acts as originator                      Bank acts as sponsor                     Banks acts as investor

 Traditional 
Of which simple, transparent and comparable (STC) 
Synthetic 
Sub-total 
 Traditional 
Of which simple, transparent and comparable (STC) 
Synthetic 
Sub-total 
 Traditional 
Of which simple, transparent and comparable (STC) 
Synthetic 
Sub-total 


1      Retail (total)

       - of which

2       residential
        mortgage

3       credit card




Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                                                                                                  1426/1626
4    other retail
     exposures

5    re-
     securitisation

6    Wholesale
     (total)

     - of which

7    loans to
     corporates

8    commercial
     mortgage

9    lease and
     receivables

10   other
     wholesale

11   re-
     securitisation

Definitions

(i) When the "bank acts as originator" the securitisation exposures are the retained positions, even where not eligible to the securitisation
framework due to absence of significant and effective risk transfer (which may be presented separately).



(ii) When "the bank acts as sponsor", the securitisation exposures include exposures to commercial paper conduits
programme-wide enhancements, liquidity and other facilities. Where the bank acts both as originator and spo
counting. In this regard, the bank can merge two columns of "bank acts as originator" and "bank acts as spon
originator/sponsor" columns.

(iii) Securitisation exposures when "the bank acts as an investor" are the investment positions purchased in third-pa

Synthetic transactions: if the bank has purchased protection it must report the net exposure amounts to which i
originator/sponsor (ie the amount that is not secured). If the bank has sold protection, the exposure amount of th
reported in the "investor" column.

Re-securitisation: all securitisation exposures related to re-securitisation must be completed in rows "re-sec
preceding rows (by type of underlying asset) which contain only securitisation exposures other than re-securitisatio




Template SEC3: Securitisation exposures in the banking book and
associated regulatory capital requirements - bank acting as originator
or as sponsor




Purpose: Present securitisation exposures in the banking book when the bank acts as originator or sponsor and the associated capital requirements.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks with securitisation exposures as sponsor or originator.

Content: Exposure amounts, risk-weighted assets and capital requirements. This template contains originator or sponsor exposures that are treated under the securitisa
framework.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed. The format is fixed if consistent with locally applicable regulations. The breakdown of columns (f) to (h), (j) to (l) and (n) to (p) may be adapted at jurisdict
level where necessary.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative commentary to explain any significant changes over the reporting period an
key drivers of such changes.


                                                                                   Exposure values                             RWA
                          Exposure values (by risk weight bands)                                                                                           Capital charge after ca
                                                                               (by regulatory approach)             (by regulatory approach)

                                                    greater than 100%
                                greater than 20%      greater than 50%                                    SEC-                                 SEC-                                   SEC-
                                                   to                    SEC-                SEC-             SEC-                   SEC-           SEC-
                        less than 20%     to       to                   1250%              ERBA and            1250%            ERBA and              1250%            ERBA and
                                                    less than 1250%                IRBA                SA               IRBA                   SA             IRBA
                                50%      100%                                    SEC-IAA                              SEC-IAA                                SEC-IAA
                                                   RW

1    Total
     exposures

2    Traditional
     securitisation

3




      Of which
      securitisation

4       Of which
        retail
        underlying

5           Of
        which STC

6       Of which
        wholesale

7           Of
      which STC

8     Of which re-
      securitisation

9    Synthetic
     securitisation

10    Of which
      securitisation

11       Of which
         retail
         underlying

12       Of which
         wholesale

13    Of which re-
      securitisation





Definitions

Columns (a) to (e) are defined in relation to regulatory risk weights.

Columns (f) to (q) correspond to regulatory approach used. "1250%" covers securitisation exposures to which none
applied.

Capital charge after cap will refer to capital charge after application of the cap as described in CRE40.50 to CRE40.5



Template SEC4: Securitisation exposures in the banking book and
associated capital requirements - bank acting as investor




Purpose: Present securitisation exposures in the banking book where the bank acts as investor and the associated capital requirements.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks having securitisation exposures as investor.

Content: Exposure amounts, risk-weighted assets and capital requirements. This template contains investor exposures that are treated under the securitisation framewo

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed. The format is fixed if consistent with locally applicable regulations. The breakdown of columns (f) to (h), (j) to (l) and (n) to (p) may be adapted at jurisdict
level where necessary.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative commentary to explain any significant changes over the reporting period an
key drivers of such changes.


                                                                          Exposure values (by regulatory
                          Exposure values (by risk weight bands)                                                RWA (by regulatory approach)               Capital charge after ca
                                                                                    approach)

                                greater than 20%     greater than 50%       greater than 100%                        SEC-                                  SEC-                                   SEC-
                                                                         SEC-                SEC-             SEC-                 SEC-             SEC-
                       less than 20%     to       to        to         1250%             ERBA and             1250%            ERBA and            1250%              ERBA and
                                                                         IRBA                SA               IRBA                 SA               IRBA
                                50%      100%       less than 1250%                       SEC-IAA                               SEC-IAA                                SEC-IAA

1    Total
     exposures

2    Traditional
     securitisation

3     Of which
      securitisation

4

        Of which
        retail
        underlying

5           Of
        which STC

6       Of which
        wholesale

7           Of
      which STC

8     Of which re-
      securitisation

9    Synthetic
     securitisation

10    Of which
      securitisation

11       Of which
         retail
         underlying

12       Of which
         wholesale

13    Of which re-
      securitisation

Definitions




Columns (a) to (e) are defined in relation to regulatory risk weights.

Columns (f) to (q) correspond to regulatory approach used. "1250%" covers securitisation exposures to which none of the approaches laid out in CRE40.42 to CRE40.48
applied

Capital charge after cap will refer to capital charge after application of the cap as described in CRE40.50 to CRE40.55.




                                 DIS50
                                 Market risk
                                 This chapter describes disclosure requirements
                                 for market risk.


                                Introduction
50.1   The market risk section includes the market risk capital requirements calculated
       for trading book and banking book exposures that are subject to a market risk
       charge in MAR10 to MAR30. It also includes capital requirements for
       securitisation positions held in the trading book. However, it excludes the
       counterparty credit risk capital charges that apply to the same exposures, which
       are reported in DIS42.

50.2   The disclosure requirements under this section are:

       General information about market risk:

       (1) Table MRA - Qualitative disclosure requirements related to market risk

       Market risk under the standardised approach:

       (2) Template MR1 - Market risk under standardised approach

       Market risk under the Internal Models Approach (IMA):

       (3) Table MRB - Qualitative disclosures for banks using the IMA

       (4) Template MR2 - Risk-weighted asset (RWA) flow statements of market risk
           exposures under an IMA

       (5) Template MR3 - IMA values for trading portfolios

       (6) Template MR4 - Comparison of value-at-risk (VaR) estimates with gains
           /losses


       FAQ
       FAQ1       What is the intended relationship between the stressed value-at-risk
                  (sVaR) and the stress testing under Section A of Table MRB, for item (g)
                  (Description of stress testing applied to the modelling parameters)?

                  The requirement in Section B, item (g) applies to VaR and sVaR models.
                  Banks should describe the main scenarios that they have developed to
                  capture the characteristics of the portfolios to which the VaR and sVaR
                  models apply at the group-wide level, including the methodology for
                  the selection of the stress period.

       FAQ2       According to the description of the scope of application in Table MRB,
                  “the commentary must include the percentage of capital requirements
                  covered by the models described for each of the regulatory models



               (VaR, sVaR, [incremental risk capital requirement, or] IRC,
               Comprehensive Risk Measure).” Given that the breakdown of capital
               charges due to each of the components is disclosed under Template
               MR2, is the qualitative disclosure still required?

               The purpose of this percentage is to inform how representative the
               internal models used within the group that are described in the
               qualitative part for VaR/sVaR/IRC/comprehensive risk measure are,
               relative to the main models used within the group. This would not be
               relevant if only one model was used for all the entities included in the
               consolidated group for each internal model of VaR/sVaR/IRC
               /comprehensive risk measure. For instance, for disclosure requirements
               in Template MRB, if within a banking group of six entities, five
               consolidated banking entities use an “X” VaR model representing 90%
               of the total capital charge calculated based on the VaR model of the
               consolidated banking group, and one entity uses a “Y” VaR model
               (different from the “X” model), the banking group should specify that
               the description of the qualitative characteristics of the internal VaR
               model represents 90% of the capital charge calculated based on the
               VaR model of the banking group, to give users an indication of how
               representative the model described is.

     FAQ3      For Internal Models Approach (IMA) banks, the market risk capital
               charge is the maximum of (i) quarter-end figures; and (ii) average
               figures of the last 60 days, with the multiplier applicable to those
               banks. Given that Template MR2 row 1 states “at previous quarter-end”
               and row 8 states “at the end of reporting period”, does the template
               require flow analysis based upon quarter-end figures (ie the amount
               presented in the rows in this template do not necessarily match the
               actual market risk capital charge under the Pillar 1 requirement)?

               As specified in the definitions: “Total RWA at end of reporting period:
               derived risk-weighted assets corresponding to the [total capital
               requirements for market risk on the basis of internal model approaches
              ”; this amount must reconcile with the amounts shown in
               Template OV1. Therefore, row 1 must reflect “the end of previous
               reporting period”, and the rows in this template must match the actual
               market risk charge under the Pillar 1 requirement. As the linkage in
               Template OV1 states that “OV1: Amount in OV1:22/a, is equal to ”, the amount in  is equal to .

               If the derived RWA from the capital requirement for any of the columns
               (a)–(d) / rows 1 or 8, is not directly provided by the model, but is
               instead calculated from the 60-day average (for VaR and sVaR), the 12-
               week average measure or the floor measure (for CRM), the bank may


               add an additional row for regulatory adjustment in order to be able to
               provide the reconciliation required in Template MR2 as well as the key
               drivers’ amounts in rows 2–6. Refer to DIS99.3 for a worked example.

     FAQ4      Is the disclosure in Template MR4 necessary? It could reveal sensitive
               information such as capital multipliers.

               The daily VaR measures in the template are to be reported before
               additional capital charges at the supervisor’s discretion, but Template
               MR4 should show the number and the extent of the backtesting
               exceptions, with an analysis of the main outliers. Template MR4
               provides backtesting information on the daily regulatory VaR
               calibrated to a one-day holding period to compare with the 99%
               confidence level with its trading outcome. To the extent that the
               template is intended to provide information on the reliability of the
               VaR estimates in highlighting the frequency and the extent of the
               outliers in the backtesting results, the daily VaR value is the same as
               that disclosed in Template MR3, meaning that it does not include
               additional capital charges at the supervisor’s discretion. The narrative
               information should provide information on the number and the extent
               of the backtesting exceptions.

     FAQ5      Both hypothetical and actual backtesting results are requested in
               Template MR4, but are actual results needed if they are not reported to
               regulators?

               Except when national supervisors have explicitly limited the backtesting
               to one of these two approaches, banks must present a meaningful
               comparison of the daily VaR measures on trading outcomes for actual
               and hypothetical changes in the corresponding portfolio’s value.





Table MRA: Qualitative disclosure requirements related to market risk

Purpose: Provide a description of the risk management objectives and policies concerning market
risk as defined in MAR10.1.

Scope of application: The table is mandatory for all banks that are subject to a market risk capital
requirement for their trading activities.

Content: Qualitative information.

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible.

(A) Banks must describe their risk management objectives and policies for market risk according to
the framework below (the granularity of the information should support the provision of meaningful
information to users):

       Strategies and processes of the bank: this must include an explanation of management's
       strategic objectives in undertaking trading activities, as well as the processes implemented to
 (a)
       identify, measure, monitor and control the bank's market risks, including policies for hedging
       risk and strategies/processes for monitoring the continuing effectiveness of hedges.

       Structure and organisation of the market risk management function: description of the market
       risk governance structure established to implement the strategies and processes of the bank
 (b)
       discussed in row (a) above, and describing the relationships and the communication
       mechanisms between the different parties involved in market risk management.

       Scope and nature of risk reporting and/or measurement systems.

       For example, banks should include descriptions relating to positions covered by the approach
       and the underlying trading activities that impact each type of market risk factor (eg interest
       rate risk factors, equity risk factors, foreign exchange risk factors, commodity risk factors).
       These may include: (a) their risk analysis and risk management systems; (b) how (a)
       corresponds to the nature and volume of transactions; (c) how reporting and measurement
 (c)
       systems provide an overall understanding of all the risks associated with the bank's market
       activities, including, at least on a day-to-day basis, the risks resulting from trading book
       positions; (d) a description of the organisational and internal control procedures; (e) the
       communication mechanisms between the different parties involved in risk management
       (management body, senior management, business lines and central risk management
       function); and (f) the frequency of reporting and the process set up to regularly update and
       assess the reporting and measurement systems.



Template MR1: Market risk under standardised approach




Purpose: Display the components of the capital requirement under the standardised approach for
market risk.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for banks using the standardised approach for
market risk.

For banks using other than the standardised approach for most of their market risk exposures,
exposures and RWA amounts under the standardised approach may be negligible. In such
circumstances, and to provide only meaningful information to users, the bank may choose not to
disclose the template for the exposures treated under the standardised approach. The bank must
however explain why it considers the information not to be meaningful to users. The explanation
must include a description of the exposures included in the respective portfolios and the aggregate
total of RWA from such exposures.

Content: Risk-weighted assets.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant changes in the reporting period and the key drivers of such
changes.

                                                                                  a

                                                                                RWA

    Outright products

1       Interest rate risk (general and specific)

2       Equity risk (general and specific)

3       Foreign exchange risk

4       Commodity risk

    Options

5       Simplified approach

6       Delta-plus method

7       Scenario approach

8   Securitisation

9   Total

Definitions


Outright products refer to positions in products that are not optional.

RWA: for consistency throughout the document, RWA are disclosed instead of capital
requirements, banks must derive the market risk RWA by multiplying the capital requirements by
12.5.


Table MRB: Qualitative disclosures for banks using the Internal Models
Approach (IMA)




Purpose: Provide the scope, the main characteristics and the key modelling choices of the different
models (VaR, sVaR, incremental risk capital - or IRC, comprehensive risk measure) used for
regulatory calculation of market risks.

Scope of application: The table is mandatory for all banks using an internal model to calculate its
market risk capital requirements.

To provide meaningful information to users on their use of internal models, the bank must describe
the main characteristics of the models used at the group-wide level (according to the scope of
regulatory consolidation) and explain to what extent they represent all the models used at the
group-wide level. The commentary must include the percentage of capital requirements covered by
the models described for each of the regulatory models (VaR, sVaR, IRC, Comprehensive Risk
Measure).

Content: Qualitative information.

Frequency: Annually.

Format: Flexible.

(A) For VaR models and stressed VaR models, banks must provide the following information:

        Description of activities and risks covered by the VaR models and sVaR models. Where
        applicable, banks must also describe the main activities and risks not included in VaR/sVaR
(a)
        regulatory calculations (due to lack of historical data or model constraints) and treated under
        other model risk measures (such as specific treatments allowed in some jurisdictions).

        Specify which entities in the group use the models or if a single model (VaR/sVaR) is used for
(b)
        all entities with market risk exposure.

(c)     General description of the models (VaR/sVaR).

        Discussion of the main differences, if any, between the model used for management purposes
(d)
        and the model used for regulatory purposes (10 day 99%). For VaR and sVaR models.

(e)     For VaR models, banks must specify:

(e)
(i)     Data updating frequency;

(e)     Length of the data period that is used to calibrate the model. Describe the weighting scheme
(ii)    that is used (if any);

(e)     How the bank determines the 10-day holding period. For example, does it scale up a one-day
(iii)   VaR by the square root of 10, or does it directly model the 10-day VaR.

        Aggregation approach (method for aggregating the specific and general risk: (ie does the
(e)     bank calculate the specific charge as a standalone charge by using a different method than
(iv)    the one used to calculate the general risk or does the bank use a single model that diversifies
        general and specific risk?)


(e)
(v)     Valuation approach (full revaluation or use of approximations);

        Describe whether, when simulating potential movements in risk factors, absolute or relative
(e)
        returns (or a mixed approach) are used (ie proportional change in prices or rates or absolute
(vi)
        change in prices or rates).

(f)     For stressed VaR models, banks must specify:

        How the 10-day holding period is determined. For example, does the bank scale up a one-
        day VaR by the square root of 10, or does it directly model the 10-day VaR? If the approach is
(f) (i)
        the same as for the VaR models, the bank may confirm this and refer to disclosure (e) (iii)
        above.

(f)
        The stress period chosen by the bank and the rationale for this choice.
(ii)

(f)
(iii)   Valuation approach (full revaluation or use of approximations);

(g)     Description of stress testing applied to the modelling parameters;

        Description of the approach used for backtesting/validating the accuracy and internal
(h)
        consistency of data and parameters used for the internal models and modelling processes.

(B) Banks using internal models to measure the risk for the incremental risk capital charge must
provide the following information:

(a)     General description of the methodology;

(a)     Information about the overall modelling approach (notably use of spread-based models or
(i)     transition matrix-based models);

(a)
        Information on the calibration of the transition matrix;
(ii)

(a)
        Information about correlation assumptions;
(iii)

(b)     Approach used to determine liquidity horizons;

        Methodology used to achieve a capital assessment that is consistent with the required
(c)
        soundness standard (consistent with MAR30.34);

(d)     Approach used in the validation of the models.

(C) Banks using internal models to measure the risk for the comprehensive risk capital charge must
provide the following information:

(a)     General description of the methodology




 
(a)     Information about the overall modelling approach (notably choice of model correlation
(i)     between default/migrations and spread: (i) separate but correlated stochastic processes
        driving migration/default and spread movement; (ii) spread changes driving migration
        /default; or (iii) default/migrations driving spread changes);

(a)     Information used to calibrate the parameters of the base correlation: loss-given-default
(ii)    pricing of the tranches (constant or stochastic);

        Information on the choice whether to age positions (profits and losses based on the
(a)     simulated market movement in the model calculated based on the time to expiry of each
(iii)   position at the end of the one-year capital horizon or using their time to expiry at the
        calculation date);

(b)     Approach used to determine liquidity horizons;

        Methodology used to achieve a capital assessment that is consistent with the required
(c)
        soundness standard;

        Approach used in the validation of the models.

        For example, a general description of the process developed to ensure that the internal
        models have been adequately validated by suitable parties (ie independent and qualified to
        ensure that the models are conceptually sound and capture all material risks, including
(d)
        specific criteria related to incremental default and migration risk) should be provided. Banks
        should also explain how the validation process is implemented, when the models are initially
        developed as well as when any significant changes are made to the models, and how they
        ensure a periodic validation to capture any significant structural changes in the market or in
        the composition of the portfolios covered by the models.



Template MR2: RWA flow statements of market risk exposures under
an IMA




Purpose: Present a flow statement explaining variations in the market RWA determined under an
internal model approach.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for banks using an internal model approach for
their market risk exposures.

Content: Risk-weighted assets for market risk. Changes in RWA amounts over the reporting period
for each of the key drivers should be based on a bank's reasonable estimation of the figure.

Frequency: Quarterly.

Format: Fixed format. The columns and rows 1 and 8 are fixed. Banks may add additional rows
between rows 7 and 8 to disclose additional elements that contribute to RWA variations.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant changes over the reporting period and the key drivers of
such changes.


                                                             Comprehensive   risk measure                     Total RWA
                                 VaR       sVaR       IRC                        Other
                                                                        

1   RWA at previous
    quarter end

2   Movement in risk levels

3   Model updates
    /changes

4   Methodology and
    policy

5   Acquisitions and
    disposals

6   Foreign exchange
    movements

7   Other

8   RWA at end of
    reporting period

Definitions

Rows

Movement in risk levels: changes due to position changes.


Model changes: Significant updates to the model to reflect recent experience (eg recalibration), as
well as significant changes in model scope; if more than one model update has taken place,
additional rows could be necessary.

Methodology and policy: Methodology changes to the calculations driven by regulatory policy
changes.

Acquisitions and disposals: Modifications due to acquisition or disposal of business/product lines
or entities.

Foreign exchange: Changes in RWA under the market risk internal models approach arising from
foreign currency translation movements.

Other: this category must be used to capture changes that cannot be attributed to any other
category. Banks should add additional rows between rows 6 and 7 to disclose other material
drivers of RWA movements over the reporting period.

Columns

RWA at end of reporting period column VaR: derived risk-weighted assets corresponding to the
[capital requirements reflecting the Regulatory Value at Risk (10 day 99%), as well as additional
capital charge related to VaR model on the supervisor's decision] x 12.5.

RWA at end of reporting period column Stressed VaR: derived risk-weighted assets corresponding
to the [capital requirements reflecting the Stressed Regulatory Value at Risk (10 day 99%) as well
as additional capital charge on the supervisor's decision] x 12.5.

RWA at end of reporting period column IRC: derived risk-weighted assets corresponding to the
[capital requirements as used for computing the incremental risk charge as well as additional
capital charge on the supervisor's decision (multiplier)] x 12.5.

RWA at end of reporting period column comprehensive risk measure: derived risk-weighted assets
corresponding to the [capital requirements as used for computing the comprehensive risk capital
charge as well as any additional capital charge on the supervisor's decision] x 12.5.

RWA at end of reporting period column Other: derived risk-weighted assets corresponding to
specific capital charges (jurisdiction- or firm-specific) on the basis of model approaches not
reported in VaR/sVaR/IRC/comprehensive risk mesure. Additional columns can be disclosed where
the jurisdictions provide more than one specific capital charge.

Total RWA at end of reporting period: derived risk-weighted assets corresponding to the [total
capital requirements for market risk in the basis of internal model approaches x 12.5]; this amount
must reconcile with the amounts shown in template OV1 (see Part 2).


Template MR3: IMA values for trading portfolios




Purpose: Display the values (maximum, minimum, average and period ending for the reporting
period) resulting from the different types of models used for computing the regulatory capital
charge at the group level, before any additional capital charge is applied by the jurisdiction.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks using an internal model approach
for their market risk exposures.

Content: Outputs of internal models for regulatory capital purposes at the group-wide level
(according to the scope of regulatory consolidation).

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Fixed.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are expected to supplement the template with a narrative
commentary to explain any significant changes over the reporting period and the key drivers of
such changes.

                                                                                       
VaR (10 day 99%)

1     Maximum value

2     Average value

3     Minimum value

4     Period end

sVaR (10 day 99%)

5     Maximum value

6     Average value

7     Minimum value

8     Period end

Incremental Risk capital requirement (99.9%)

9     Maximum value

10    Average value

11    Minimum value

12    Period end

 Comprehensive Risk capital charge (99.9%)


13    Maximum value

14    Average value

15    Minimum value

16    Period end

17    Floor (standardised measurement method)

Definitions

VaR refers in this template to the regulatory VaR used to compute the capital charge. The amounts
reported do not include additional capital charges at supervisor's discretion (related to the
multiplier, for instance).

sVaR refers in this template to the regulatory stressed VaR used to compute the capital charge.
The amounts reported do not include additional capital on the supervisor's decision (multiplier).

IRC refers in this template to the IRC as used for computing the capital charge. The amounts
reported do not include additional capital on the supervisor's decision (multiplier).

Comprehensive Risk capital charge: the rows 13, 14, 15 and 16 are unfloored numbers; the floor
calculation is reflected for reporting period-end in row 17.

Floor: 8% of the capital charge for specific risk according to MAR30.36.



Template MR4: Comparison of VaR estimates with gains/losses



Purpose: Present a comparison of the results of estimates from the regulatory VaR model with
both hypothetical and actual trading outcomes, to highlight the frequency and the extent of the
backtesting exceptions, and to give an analysis of the main outliers in backtested results, as per
MAR99.22 to MAR99.38.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks using an internal model approach
for their market risk exposures.

To provide meaningful information to users on the backtesting of their internal models, the bank
must include in this template the key models used at the group-wide level (according to the scope
of regulatory consolidation) and explain to what extent they represent the models used at the
group-wide level. The commentary must include the percentage of capital requirements covered by
the models for which backtesting results are shown here.

Content: VaR model outcomes.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Flexible.

Accompanying narrative: Banks must present an analysis of "outliers" (backtesting exceptions) in
backtested results, specifying the dates and the corresponding excess (VaR-P&L). The analysis
should at least specify the key drivers of the exceptions.

Banks must disclose similar comparisons for actual profit and loss (P&L) and hypothetical P&L
(developed in accordance with MAR99.31 to MAR99.33). For the key models used at the group-
wide level, banks must disclose a comparison between the daily VaR measures and the trading
outcomes corresponding to hypothetical changes in the portfolio's values (based on a comparison
between the portfolio's end-of-day value and, assuming unchanged positions, its value at the end
of the subsequent day), as well as a comparison between the daily VaR measure and the trading
outcomes corresponding to actual changes in the portfolio's values (based on a comparison
between the portfolio's end-of-day value and its actual value at the end of the subsequent day).
Daily VaR should reflect the risk measures (used for regulatory purposes) calibrated to a one-day
holding period to compare with the 99% confidence level with its trading outcomes for both actual
and hypothetical P&L.

For actual P&L: banks must provide information about actual gains/losses, and especially clarify
whether they include reserves, and if not, how reserves are integrated into the backtesting process;
banks must also clarify whether actual P&L includes commissions and fees or not.

Definitions

Daily VaR in this template should reflect the risk measures (used for regulatory purposes) calibrated
to a one-day holding period to compare with the 99% of confidence level with its trading outcomes.

Hypothetical gain/loss is based on hypothetical changes in portfolio values that would occur if end-
of-day positions remain unchanged.



                                 DIS60
                                 Operational risk
                                 This chapter describes disclosure requirements
                                 for operational risk.


                                Introduction
60.1   The disclosure requirements for operational risk are set out below.


Operational risk disclosure requirements

Qualitative        (a)    The approach(es) for operational risk capital assessment for which the
disclosures               bank qualifies.

                   (b)    Description of the advanced measurement approaches (AMAs) for
                          operational risk, if used by the bank, including a discussion of relevant
                          internal and external factors considered in the bank's measurement
                          approach. In the case of partial use, the scope and coverage of the
                          different approaches used.

                   (c)*   For banks using the AMAs, a description of the use of insurance for the
                          purpose of mitigating operational risk.

* Fulfilling this requirement is a condition for use of the particular approach (AMA) for the
calculation of regulatory capital.



                                 DIS70
                                 Interest rate risk in the
                                 banking book
                                 This chapter describes disclosure requirements
                                 for interest rate risk in the banking book.


                               Introduction
70.1   The disclosure requirements set out in this chapter are:

       (1) Table IRRBBA – Interest rate risk in the banking book (IRRBB) risk
           management objective and policies

       (2) Template IRRBB1 – Quantitative information on IRRBB

70.2   Table IRRBBA provides information on a bank’s IRRBB risk management objective
       and policy. Template IRRBB1 provides quantitative IRRBB information, including
       the impact of interest rate shocks on their change in economic value of equity
       and net interest income, computed based on a set of prescribed interest rate
       shock scenarios.

70.3   Banks must disclose the measured changes in economic value of equity (∆EVE)
       and changes in net interest income (∆NII) under the prescribed interest rate
       shock scenarios set out in SRP31. In disclosing Table IRRBBA and Template
       IRRBB1, banks should use their own internal measurement system (IMS) to
       calculate the IRRBB exposure values, unless instructed by their national
       supervisor. SRP31 provides a standardised framework that banks may adopt as
       their IMS. In addition to quantitative disclosure, banks should provide sufficient
       qualitative information and supporting detail to enable the market and wider
       public to:

       (1) Monitor the sensitivity of the bank’s economic value and earnings to
           changes in interest rates;

       (2) Understand the primary assumptions underlying the measurement produced
           by the bank’s IMS; and

       (3) Have an insight into the bank’s overall IRRBB objective and IRRBB
           management.

70.4   For the disclosure of ∆EVE:

       (1) Banks should exclude their own equity from the computation of the
           exposure level;

       (2) Banks should include all cash flows from all interest rate-sensitive assets,
           liabilities and off-balance sheet items in the banking book in the
           computation of their exposure. Banks should disclose whether they have
           excluded or included commercial margins and other spread components in
           their cash flows;



       (3) Cash flows should be discounted using either a risk-free rate or a risk-free
           rate including commercial margins and other spread components (only if the
           bank has included commercial margins and other spread components in its
           cash flows).2 Banks should disclose whether they have discounted their cash
           flows using a risk-free rate or a risk-free rate including commercial margins
           and other spread components; and

       (4) ΔEVE should be computed with the assumption of a run-off balance sheet,
           where existing banking book positions amortise and are not replaced by any
           new business.


Interest rate-sensitive assets are assets which are not deducted from
                   Common Equity Tier 1 capital and which exclude (i) fixed assets such
                   as real estate or intangible assets as well as (ii) equity exposures in the
                   banking book.

       2           The discounting factors must be representative of a risk-free zero
                   coupon rate. An example of an acceptable yield curve is a secured
                   interest rate swap curve.


70.5   For the disclosure of ∆NII:

       (1) Banks should include expected cash flows (including commercial margins
           and other spread components) arising from all interest rate-sensitive assets,
           liabilities and off-balance sheet items in the banking book;

       (2) ΔNII should be computed assuming a constant balance sheet, where
           maturing or repricing cash flows are replaced by new cash flows with
           identical features with regard to the amount, repricing period and spread
           components.

       (3) ΔNII should be disclosed as the difference in future interest income over a
           rolling 12-month period.

70.6   In addition to the required disclosures in Table IRRBBA and Template IRRBB1,
       banks are encouraged to make voluntary disclosures of information on internal
       measures of IRRBB that would assist the market in interpreting the mandatory
       disclosure numbers.



Table IRRBBA - IRRBB risk management objectives and policies




Purpose: Provide a description of the risk management objectives and policies concerning IRRBB.

Scope of application: Mandatory for all banks within the scope of application set out in SRP31.

Content: Qualitative and quantitative information. Quantitative information is based on the daily or
monthly average of the year or on the data as at the reporting date.

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible.

Qualitative disclosure

a    A description of how the bank defines IRRBB for purposes of risk control and measurement.

b    A description of the bank's overall IRRBB management and mitigation strategies. Examples are:
     monitoring of economic value of equity (EVE) and net interest income (NII) in relation to
     established limits, hedging practices, conduct of stress testing, outcome analysis, the role of
     independent audit, the role and practices of the asset and liability management committee,
     the bank's practices to ensure appropriate model validation, and timely updates in response to
     changing market conditions.

c    The periodicity of the calculation of the bank's IRRBB measures, and a description of the
     specific measures that the bank uses to gauge its sensitivity to IRRBB.

d    A description of the interest rate shock and stress scenarios that the bank uses to estimate
     changes in the economic value and in earnings.

e    Where significant modelling assumptions used in the bank's internal measurement systems
     (IMS) (ie the EVE metric generated by the bank for purposes other than disclosure, eg for
     internal assessment of capital adequacy) are different from the modelling assumptions
     prescribed for the disclosure in Template IRRBB1, the bank should provide a description of
     those assumptions and their directional implications and explain its rationale for making those
     assumptions (eg historical data, published research, management judgment and analysis).

f    A high-level description of how the bank hedges its IRRBB, as well as the associated
     accounting treatment.

g    A high-level description of key modelling and parametric assumptions used in calculating
     ∆EVE and ∆NII in Template IRRBB1, which includes:


           For ∆EVE, whether commercial margins and other spread components have been
           included in the cash flows used in the computation and discount rate used.
           How the average repricing maturity of non-maturity deposits has been determined
           (including any unique product characteristics that affect assessment of repricing
           behaviour).
           The methodology used to estimate the prepayment rates of customer loans, and/or the
           early withdrawal rates for time deposits, and other significant assumptions.


           Any other assumptions (including for instruments with behavioural optionalities that
           have been excluded) that have a material impact on the disclosed ∆EVE and ∆NII in
           Template IRRBB1, including an explanation of why these are material.
           Any methods of aggregation across currencies and any significant interest rate
           correlations between different currencies.

h   (Optional) Any other information which the bank wishes to disclose regarding its
    interpretation of the significance and sensitivity of the IRRBB measures disclosed and/or an
    explanation of any significant variations in the level of the reported IRRBB since previous
    disclosures.

Quantitative disclosures

1   Average repricing maturity assigned to non-maturity deposits (NMDs).

2   Longest repricing maturity assigned to NMDs.



Template IRRBB1 - Quantitative information on IRRBB




Purpose: Provide information on the bank's changes in economic value of equity and net interest
income under each of the prescribed interest rate shock scenarios.

Scope of application: Mandatory for all banks within the scope of application set out in SRP31.

Content: Quantitative information.

Frequency: Annual

Format: Fixed.

Accompanying narrative: Commentary on the significance of the reported values and an
explanation of any material changes since the previous reporting period.

 In reporting
                                       ∆EVE                                  ∆NII
 currency

 Period                        T                 T-1                 T                 T-1

 Parallel up

 Parallel down

 Steepener

 Flattener

 Short rate up

 Short rate down

 Maximum

 Period                                  T                                    T-1

 Tier 1 capital




Definitions

For each of the supervisory prescribed interest rate shock scenarios, the bank must report for
the current period and for the previous period:

(i)     the change in the economic value of equity based on its IMS, using a run-off balance sheet
       and an instantaneous shock or based on the result of the standardised framework SRP31 if
       the bank has chosen to adopt the framework or has been mandated by its supervisor to
       follow the framework; and

(ii)    the change in projected NII over a forward-looking rolling 12-month period compared
       with the bank's own best estimate 12-month projections, using a constant balance sheet
       assumption and an instantaneous shock.



                                 DIS75
                                 Macroprudential supervisory
                                 measures
                                 This chapter describes disclosures accompanying
                                 the assessment methodology for G-SIBs and the
                                 countercyclical capital buffer.


                               Introduction
75.1   The disclosure requirements set out in this chapter are:

       (1) Template GSIB1 – Disclosure of global systemically important bank (G-SIB)
           indicators

       (2) Template CCyB1 – Geographical distribution of credit exposures used in the
           calculation of the bank-specific countercyclical capital buffer requirement

75.2   Template GSIB1 provides users of Pillar 3 data with details of the indicators used
       to assess how a G-SIB has been determined. National authorities retain the
       discretion to require G-SIBs to report a more detailed breakdown of the
       assessment indicators on the Committee’s data hub using the existing template.
       Those banks that are required by their national authorities to disclose the full
       breakdown of their indicators, or choose to do so, should include the web link or
       other relevant reference in their Pillar 3 report to facilitate users’ access to this
       information.

75.3   Template CCyB1 provides details of the calculation of a bank’s countercyclical
       capital buffer, including details of the geographical breakdown of the bank’s
       private sector credit exposures.



Template GSIB1 - Disclosure of G-SIB indicators




Purpose: Provide an overview of the indicators that feed into the Committee's methodology for
assessing the systemic importance of global banks.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for banks which in the previous year have either
been classified as G-SIBs, have a leverage ratio exposure measure exceeding EUR 200 billion or
were included in the assessment sample by the relevant authority based on supervisory judgment
(see SCO40).

For G-SIB assessment purposes, the applicable leverage ratio exposure measure definition is
contained in the LEV.

For application of this threshold, banks should use the applicable exchange rate information
provided on the Basel Committee website at www.bis.org/bcbs/gsib/ . The disclosure itself is made
in the bank's own currency.

Content: At least the 12 indicators used in the assessment methodology of the G-SIB framework
(see SCO40).

Frequency: Annual. National authorities may allow banks whose financial year ends on 30 June to
report indicator values based on their position as at 31 December (ie interim rather than financial
year-end data).

Or in circumstances when banks are required to restate figures to reflect final data submitted to
the Committee. This template must also be included in the bank's financial year-end Pillar 3 report.
Restatements are only necessary if considered so by the national authority or on voluntary basis.

Format: Flexible. The information disclosed must be fully consistent with the data submitted to
the relevant supervisory authorities for subsequent remittance to the Committee in the context of
its annual data collection exercise for the assessment and identification of G-SIBs.

Where jurisdictions require banks (or banks voluntarily choose) to disclose the full breakdown of
the indicators, such disclosure must take place using the template and related instructions that
sample banks use to report their data to the Committee's data hub or as required by their local
jurisdiction. The template format and its reporting instructions are available on the Basel
Committee website (see www.bis.org/bcbs/gsib/reporting_instructions.htm ).

Accompanying narrative: Banks should indicate the annual reference date of the information
reported as well as the date of first public disclosure. Banks should include a web link to the
disclosure of the previous G-SIB assessment exercise.

Banks may supplement the template with a narrative commentary to explain any relevant
qualitative characteristic deemed necessary for understanding the quantitative data. This
information may include explanations about the use of estimates with a short explanation as
regards the method used, mergers or modifications of the legal structure of the entity subjected
to the reported data, the bucket to which the bank was allocated and changes in higher loss
absorbency requirements, or reference to the Basel Committee website for data on denominators,
cutoff scores and buckets.
Regardless of whether Template GSIB1 is included in the annual Pillar 3 report, a bank's annual
Pillar 3 report as well as all the interim Pillar 3 reports should include a reference to the website
where current and previous disclosures of Template GSIB1 can be found.

      Category                        Individual indicator                                  Values

 1                                    Cross-jurisdictional claims
      Cross-jurisdictional activity
 2                                    Cross-jurisdictional liabilities

 3    Size                            Total exposures

 4                                    Intra-financial system assets

 5    Interconnectedness              Intra-financial system liabilities

 6                                    Securities outstanding

 7                                    Assets under custody

 8    Substitutability/ Financial institution infrastructure     Payment activity
      
                                      Underwritten transactions in debt and equity markets
 9
                                      

                                      Notional amount of over-the-counter derivatives
10
                                      
      Complexity
11                                    Level 3 assets

12                                    Trading and available for sale securities

Definitions and instructions

The template must be completed according to the instructions and definitions for the
corresponding rows in force at the disclosure's reference date, which is based on the Committee's
G-SIB identification exercise.




Template CCyB1 - Geographical distribution of credit exposures used
in the calculation of the bank-specific countercyclical capital buffer
requirement




Purpose: Provide an overview of the geographical distribution of private sector credit exposures
relevant for the calculation of the bank's countercyclical capital buffer.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks subject to a countercyclical capital
buffer requirement based on the jurisdictions in which they have private sector credit exposures
subject to a countercyclical capital buffer requirement compliant with the Basel standards. Only
banks with exposures to jurisdictions in which the countercyclical capital buffer rate is higher than
zero should disclose this template.

Content: Private sector credit exposures and other relevant inputs necessary for the computation
of the bank-specific countercyclical capital buffer rate.

Frequency: Semiannual.

Format: Flexible. Columns and rows might be added or removed to fit with the domestic
implementation of the countercyclical capital buffer and thereby provide information on any
variables necessary for its computation. A column or a row may be removed if the information is
not relevant to the domestic implementation of the countercyclical capital buffer framework.

Accompanying narrative: For the purposes of the countercyclical capital buffer, banks should use,
where possible, exposures on an "ultimate risk" basis. They should disclose the methodology of
geographical allocation used, and explain the jurisdictions or types of exposures for which the
ultimate risk method is not used as a basis for allocation. The allocation of exposures to
jurisdictions should be made taking into consideration the clarifications provided by RBC30.
Information about the drivers for changes in the exposure amounts and the applicable jurisdiction-
specific rates should be summarised.

Geographical breakdown
Countercyclical capital buffer rate
Exposure values and/or risk- weighted assets (RWA) used in the computation of the countercyclical capital
buffer
Exposure values 
RWA 
Bank-specific countercyclical capital buffer
rate
Countercyclical capital buffer amount


      (Home)
     Country 1

     Country 2

     Country 3



    Country N

          Sum




           Total

Definitions and instructions

Unless otherwise provided for in the domestic implementation of the countercyclical capital buffer
framework, private sector credit exposures relevant for the calculation of the countercyclical capital
buffer (relevant private sector credit exposures) refer to exposures to private sector counterparties
which attract a credit risk capital charge in the banking book, and the risk-weighted equivalent
trading book capital charges for specific risk, the incremental risk charge and securitisation. Interbank
exposures and exposures to the public sector are excluded, but non-bank financial sector exposures
are included.

Country: Country in which the bank has relevant private sector credit exposures, and which has set a
countercyclical capital buffer rate greater than zero that was applicable during the reporting period
covered by the template.

Sum: Sum of private sector credit exposures or RWA for private sector credit exposures, respectively,
in jurisdictions with a non-zero countercyclical capital buffer rate.

Total: Total of private sector credit exposures or RWA for private sector credit exposures, respectively,
across all jurisdictions to which the bank is exposed, including jurisdictions with no countercyclical
capital buffer rate or with a countercyclical capital buffer rate set at zero, and value of the bank-
specific countercyclical capital buffer rate and resulting countercyclical capital buffer amount.

Countercyclical capital buffer rate: Countercyclical capital buffer rate set by the relevant national
authority in the country in question and in force during the period covered by the template or, where
applicable, the higher countercyclical capital buffer rate set for the country in question by the home
authority of the bank. Countercyclical capital buffer rates that were set by the relevant national
authority, but are not yet applicable in the country in question at the disclosure reference date (pre-
announced rates) must not be reported.

Total exposure value: If applicable, total private sector credit exposures across all jurisdictions to which
the bank is exposed, including jurisdictions with no countercyclical capital buffer rate or with a
countercyclical capital buffer rate set at zero.

Total RWA: If applicable, total value of RWA for relevant private sector credit exposures, across all
jurisdictions to which the bank is exposed, including jurisdictions with no countercyclical capital buffer
rate or with a countercyclical capital buffer rate set at zero.

Bank-specific countercyclical capital buffer rate: Countercyclical capital buffer that varies between zero
and 2.5% or, where appropriate, above 2.5% of total RWA calculated in accordance with RBC30.9 to
RBC30.15 as a weighted average of the countercyclical capital buffer rates that are being applied in
jurisdictions where the relevant credit exposures of the bank are located and reported in rows 1 to N.
This figure (ie the bank-specific countercyclical capital buffer rate) may not be deduced from the
figures reported in this template as private sector credit exposures in jurisdictions that do not have a
countercyclical capital buffer rate, which form part of the equation for calculating the figure, are not
required to be reported in this template.

Countercyclical capital buffer amount: Amount of Common Equity Tier 1 capital held to meet the
countercyclical capital buffer requirement determined in accordance with RBC30.9 to RBC30.15.

Linkages across templates


for the semiannual disclosure of KM1, and for the
quarterly disclosure of KM1



                                 DIS80
                                 Leverage ratio
                                 This chapter describes disclosure requirements
                                 for the leverage ratio.


                                Introduction
80.1   The disclosure requirements set out in this chapter are:

       (1) Template LR1 - Summary comparison of accounting assets vs leverage ratio
           exposure measure

       (2) Template LR2 - Leverage ratio common disclosure template

80.2   Template LR1 provides a reconciliation of a bank’s total assets as published in its
       financial statements to the leverage ratio exposure measure, and Template LR2
       provides a breakdown of the components of the leverage ratio exposure
       measure.




Template LR1 - Summary comparison of accounting assets vs leverage
ratio exposure measure




Purpose: Reconcile the total assets in the published financial statements to the leverage ratio
exposure measure.

Scope of application: The table is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Quantitative information. The Basel III leverage ratio framework follows the same scope of
regulatory consolidation as used for the risk-based capital framework. Disclosures should be
reported on a quarter-end basis. However, banks may, subject to supervisory approval, use more
frequent calculations (eg daily or monthly averaging), as long as they do so consistently.

Frequency: Quarterly.

Format: Fixed.

Accompanying narrative: Banks are required to disclose and detail the source of material
differences between their total balance sheet assets (net of on-balance sheet derivative and
securities financing transaction (SFT) assets) as reported in their financial statements and their on-
balance sheet exposures as set out in row 1 of Template LR2. Banks are required to include the
basis for their disclosures (eg quarter-end, daily averaging or monthly averaging).

                                                                                             a


1     Total consolidated assets as per published financial statements

      Adjustment for investments in banking, financial, insurance or commercial  entities that are consolidated for accounting purposes but outside the scope
      of regulatory consolidation
2    

      Adjustment for fiduciary assets recognised on the balance sheet pursuant to the operative accounting framework but excluded from the leverage ratio
      exposure measure
3     

4     Adjustments for derivative financial instruments

      Adjustment for securities financing transactions (ie repos and similar secured lending)
5
      

      Adjustment for off-balance sheet items (ie conversion to credit equivalent  amounts of off-balance sheet exposures)
6
     

7     Other adjustments

8     Leverage ratio exposure measure

Definitions and instructions

Row
           Explanation

number

1          The bank's total consolidated assets as per published financial statements.

           Where a banking, financial, insurance or commercial entity is outside the regulatory
           scope of consolidation, only the amount of the investment in the capital of that entity (ie
           only the carrying value of the investment, as opposed to the underlying assets and other
           exposures of the investee) shall be included in the leverage ratio exposure measure.
2          However, investments in those entities that are deducted from the bank's Common
           Equity Tier 1 (CET1) capital or from additional Tier 1 capital in accordance with CAP30.29
           to CAP30.34 may also be deducted from the leverage ratio exposure measure. As these
           adjustments reduce the total leverage ratio exposure measure, they shall be reported as
           a negative amount.

           This row shows the reduction of the consolidated assets for fiduciary assets that are
           recognised on the bank's balance sheet pursuant to the operative accounting framework
3          and which meet the de-recognition criteria of IAS 39 / IFRS 9 or the IFRS 10 de-consolidation criteria. As these adjustments reduce the total leverage ratio exposure
           measure, they shall be reported as a negative amount.

           Adjustments related to derivative financial instruments. The adjustment is the difference
           between the accounting value of the derivatives recognised as assets and the leverage
           ratio exposure value as determined by application of LEV30. If this adjustment leads to  an increase in exposure, institutions shall disclose this as a positive amount. If this
           adjustment leads to a decrease in exposure, institutions shall disclose this as a negative
           amount.
4
          

           Adjustments related to securities financing transactions (SFTs) (ie repos and other similar
           secured lending). The adjustment is the difference between the accounting value of the
           SFTs recognised as assets and the leverage ratio exposure value as determined by  application of LEV30. If this adjustment leads to an increase in the exposure, institutions
           shall disclose this as a positive amount. If this adjustment leads to a decrease in
           exposure, institutions shall disclose this as a negative amount.

           The credit equivalent amount of off-balance sheet items determined by applying the
           relevant credit conversion factors (subject to a floor of 10%) to the nominal value of the  off-balance sheet item. As these adjustments increase the total leverage ratio exposure
           measure, they shall be reported as a positive amount.

5 
          
6
          
           Any other adjustments. If these adjustments lead to an increase in the exposure, institutions shall report this as a positive amount. If these adjustments lead to a decrease
           in exposure, the institutions shall disclose this as a negative amount.

7          
8          The leverage ratio exposure, which should be the sum of the previous items.

Linkages across templates




Template LR2: Leverage ratio common disclosure template




Purpose: Provide a detailed breakdown of the components of the leverage ratio denominator.

Scope of application: The table is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Quantitative information. The disclosures should be on a quarter-end basis. However,
banks may, subject to supervisory approval, use more frequent calculations (eg daily or monthly
averaging), as long as they do so consistently.

Frequency: Quarterly.

Format: Fixed.

Accompanying narrative: Banks must describe the key factors that have had a material impact on
the leverage ratio at the end of the reporting period compared to the end of the previous reporting
period. Banks are required to include the basis for their disclosures (eg quarter-end, daily averaging
or monthly averaging).


On-balance sheet exposures

      On-balance sheet exposures (excluding derivatives and securities
 1
      financing transactions (SFTs), but including collateral)

 2    (Asset amounts deducted in determining Basel III Tier 1 capital)

      Total on-balance sheet exposures (excluding derivatives and SFTs)
 3
      (sum of rows 1 and 2)

Derivative exposures

      Replacement cost associated with all derivatives transactions (where
 4    applicable net of eligible cash variation margin and/or with bilateral
      netting)

      Add-on amounts for potential future exposure (PFE) associated with
 5
      all derivatives transactions

      Gross-up for derivatives collateral provided where deducted from
 6    the balance sheet assets pursuant to the operative accounting
      framework

      (Deductions of receivables assets for cash variation margin provided
 7
      in derivatives transactions)



 8    (Exempted central counterparty, or CCP, leg of client-cleared trade
      exposures)

 9    Adjusted effective notional amount of written credit derivatives

      (Adjusted effective notional offsets and add-on deductions for
 10
      written credit derivatives)

 11   Total derivative exposures (sum of rows 4 to 10)

Securities financing transaction exposures

      Gross SFT assets (with no recognition of netting), after adjusting for
 12
      sale accounting transactions

      (Netted amounts of cash payables and cash receivables of gross SFT
 13
      assets)

 14   Counterparty credit risk exposure for SFT assets

 15   Agent transaction exposures

      Total securities financing transaction exposures (sum of rows
 16
      12 to 15)

Other off-balance sheet exposures

 17   Off-balance sheet exposure at gross notional amount

 18   (Adjustments for conversion to credit equivalent amounts)

 19   Off-balance sheet items (sum of rows 17 and 18)

Capital and total exposures

 20   Tier 1 capital

 21   Total exposures (sum of rows 3, 11, 16 and 19)

Leverage ratio

 22   Basel III leverage ratio

Definitions and instructions

SFTs: transactions such as repurchase agreements, reverse repurchase agreements, security lending
and borrowing, and margin lending transactions, where the value of the transactions depends on
market valuations and the transactions are often subject to margin agreements.


Capital measure: The capital measure for the leverage ratio is the Tier 1 capital of the risk-based
capital framework as defined in CAP10 and CAP30 taking account of the transitional arrangements
in CAP90.

Row
           Explanation
number

           Banks must include all balance sheet assets in their exposure measure, including on-balance sheet derivatives collateral and collateral for SFTs, with the exception of on-
           balance sheet derivative and SFT assets that are included in rows 4-16.

1          
           Balance sheet assets deducted from Basel III Tier 1 capital (as set out in CAP30). For
           example,


                 Where a banking, financial or insurance entity is not included in the regulatory
                 scope of consolidation as set out in LEV10, the amount of any investment in the
                 capital of that entity that is totally or partially deducted from CET1 capital or from
                 additional Tier 1 capital of the bank following the corresponding deduction
                 approach in CAP30.29 to CAP30.34 may also be deducted from the exposure measure.
2
                 

                 For banks using the internal ratings-based (IRB) approach to determining capital
                 requirements for credit risk, CAP30.13 requires any shortfall in the stock of
                 eligible provisions relative to expected losses to be deducted from CET1 capital.
                 The same amount may be deducted from the exposure measure.

           As the adjustments in row 2 reduce the exposure measure, they shall be reported as
           negative figures.

3          Sum of rows 1 and 2.

           Replacement cost associated with all derivatives transactions (including exposures
           resulting from direct transactions between a client and a CCP where the bank guarantees the performance of its clients' derivative trade exposures to the CCP). 
4          As set
           out in LEV30, where applicable, this amount should be net of cash variation margin
           received and with bilateral netting.

           Grossed-up amount of any collateral provided in relation to derivative exposures where the provision of that collateral has reduced the value of the balance sheet assets under
           the bank's operative accounting framework, in accordance with LEV30.

6          
           Deductions of receivable assets in the amount of the cash variation margin provided in
           derivatives transactions where the posting of cash variation margin has resulted in the
           recognition of a receivable asset under the bank's operative accounting framework.
7
           As the adjustments in row 7 reduce the exposure measure, they shall be reported as
           negative figures.


        Trade exposures associated with the CCP leg of derivatives transactions resulting from
        client-cleared transactions or which the clearing member, based on the contractual
        arrangements with the client, is not obligated to reimburse the client for any losses
8       suffered due to changes in the value of its transactions in the event that a qualifying
        central counterparty (QCCP) defaults.

        As the adjustments in row 8 reduce the exposure measure, they shall be reported as
        negative figures.

        The effective notional amount of written credit derivatives which may be reduced by the
        total amount of negative changes in fair value amounts that have been incorporated into the calculation of Tier 1 capital with respect to written credit derivatives according
        to LEV30.

9
        
        This row includes:


              The amount by which the notional amount of a written credit derivative is
              reduced by a purchased credit derivative on the same reference name according  to LEV30.
10           
              The deduction of add-on amounts for PFE in relation to written credit derivatives
              determined in accordance with LEV30.

        As the adjustments in row 10 reduce the exposure measure, they shall be reported as
        negative figures.

11      Sum of rows 4-10.

        The gross amount of SFT assets without recognition of netting, other than novation with QCCPs, determined in accordance with LEV30, adjusted for any sales accounting
        transactions in accordance with LEV30.
12      

        The cash payables and cash receivables of gross SFT assets with netting determined in accordance with LEV30. As these adjustments reduce the exposure measure, they shall
        be reported as a negative figure.

13      
        The amount of the counterparty credit risk add-on for SFTs determined in accordance with LEV30.
14
        

        The amount for which the bank acting as an agent in an SFT has provided an indemnity or guarantee determined in accordance with LEV30.
15
        

16      Sum of rows 12-15.

        Total off-balance sheet exposure amounts (excluding off-balance sheet exposure amounts associated with SFT and derivative transactions) on a gross notional basis,
        before any adjustment for credit conversion factors (CCFs).

17      
        Reduction in gross amount of off-balance sheet exposures due to the application of
        CCFs. This corresponds to the complement of CCFs of the standardised approach for credit risk under the Basel II framework, subject to a floor of 10%. The floor of 10% will
18         affect commitments that are unconditionally cancellable at any time by the bank
           without prior notice, or that effectively provide for automatic cancellation due to
           deterioration in a borrower's creditworthiness. These may receive a 0% CCF under the
           risk-based capital framework. As these adjustments reduce the exposure measure, they
           shall be reported as negative figures.

19         Sum of rows 17 and 18.

           The amount of Tier 1 capital of the risk-based capital framework as defined in CAP10 and CAP30 taking account of the transitional arrangements.

20
           
21         Sum of rows 3, 11, 16 and 19.

           Basel III leverage ratio is defined as the Tier 1 capital measure of row 20 (the numerator)  divided by the exposure (the denominator) of row 21, with this ratio expressed as a
           percentage.
22        

Linkages across templates



                                 DIS85
                                 Liquidity
                                 This chapter describes disclosure requirements
                                 for the liquidity ratios.


                                Introduction
85.1   The disclosure requirements set out in this chapter are:

       (1) Table LIQA – Liquidity risk management

       (2) Temple LIQ1 – Liquidity coverage ratio (LCR)

       (3) Template LIQ2 – Net stable funding ratio (NSFR)

85.2   Table LIQA provides information on a bank’s liquidity risk management
       framework which it considers relevant to its business model and liquidity risk
       profile, organisation and functions involved in liquidity risk management.
       Template LIQ1 presents a breakdown of a bank’s cash outflows and cash inflows,
       as well as its available high-quality liquid assets under its LCR. Template LIQ2
       provides details of a bank’s NSFR and selected details of its NSFR components.



Table LIQA - Liquidity risk management




Purpose: Enable users of Pillar 3 data to make an informed judgment about the soundness of a
bank's liquidity risk management framework and liquidity position.

Scope of application: The table is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Qualitative and quantitative information.

Frequency: Annual.

Format: Flexible. Banks may choose the relevant information to be provided depending upon their
business models and liquidity risk profiles, organisation and functions involved in liquidity risk
management.

Below are examples of elements that banks may choose to describe, where relevant:

Qualitative disclosures

      Governance of liquidity risk management, including: risk tolerance; structure and
      responsibilities for liquidity risk management; internal liquidity reporting; and communication
(a)
      of liquidity risk strategy, policies and practices across business lines and with the board of
      directors.

      Funding strategy, including policies on diversification in the sources and tenor of funding, and
(b)
      whether the funding strategy is centralised or decentralised.

(c)   Liquidity risk mitigation techniques.

(d)   An explanation of how stress testing is used.

(e)   An outline of the bank's contingency funding plans.

Quantitative disclosures

      Customised measurement tools or metrics that assess the structure of the bank's balance
(f)   sheet or that project cash flows and future liquidity positions, taking into account off-balance
      sheet risks which are specific to that bank.

      Concentration limits on collateral pools and sources of funding (both products and
(g)
      counterparties).

      Liquidity exposures and funding needs at the level of individual legal entities, foreign branches
(h)   and subsidiaries, taking into account legal, regulatory and operational limitations on the
      transferability of liquidity.

      Balance sheet and off-balance sheet items broken down into maturity buckets and the
(i)
      resultant liquidity gaps.




Template LIQ1: Liquidity Coverage Ratio (LCR)




Purpose: Present the breakdown of a bank's cash outflows and cash inflows, as well as its available
high-quality liquid assets (HQLA), as measured and defined according to the LCR standard.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Data must be presented as simple averages of daily observations over the previous
quarter (ie the average calculated over a period of, typically, 90 days) in the local currency.

Frequency: Quarterly.

Format: Fixed.

Accompanying narrative: Banks must publish the number of data points used in calculating the
average figures in the template.

In addition, a bank should provide sufficient qualitative discussion to facilitate users' understanding
of its LCR calculation. For example, where significant to the LCR, banks could discuss:


      the main drivers of their LCR results and the evolution of the contribution of inputs to the
      LCR's calculation over time;
      intra-period changes as well as changes over time;
      the composition of HQLA;
      concentration of funding sources;
      currency mismatch in the LCR; and
      other inflows and outflows in the LCR calculation that are not captured in the LCR common
      template but which the institution considers to be relevant for its liquidity profile.



Total unweighted value
(average)
Total weighted value
(average)

High-quality liquid assets

  1    Total HQLA

Cash outflows

       Retail deposits and deposits from small business  customers, of which:
  2
      

  3          Stable deposits

  4          Less stable deposits



 5    Unsecured wholesale funding, of which:

           Operational deposits (all counterparties) and deposits in networks of cooperative banks
 6
            

 7         Non-operational deposits (all counterparties)

 8         Unsecured debt

 9    Secured wholesale funding

 10   Additional requirements, of which:

           Outflows related to derivative exposures and other collateral requirements
 11
           

 12        Outflows related to loss of funding on debt products

 13        Credit and liquidity facilities

 14    Other contractual funding obligations

 15    Other contingent funding obligations

 16   TOTAL CASH OUTFLOWS

Cash inflows

 17    Secured lending (eg reverse repos)

 18    Inflows from fully performing exposures

 19   Other cash inflows

 20   TOTAL CASH INFLOWS

                                                                     Total
                                                                    adjusted
                                                                      value

 21   Total HQLA

 22   Total net cash outflows

 23   Liquidity Coverage Ratio (%)

General explanations



Figures entered in the template must be averages of the observations of individual line items over
the financial reporting period (ie the average of components and the average LCR over the most
recent three months of daily positions, irrespective of the financial reporting schedule). The
averages are calculated after the application of any haircuts, inflow and outflow rates and caps,
where applicable. For example:




where T equals the number of observations in period Qi.

Weighted figures of HQLA (row 1, third column) must be calculated after the application of the
respective haircuts but before the application of any caps on Level 2B and Level 2 assets.
Unweighted inflows and outflows (rows 2-8, 11-15 and 17-20, second column) must be calculated
as outstanding balances. Weighted inflows and outflows (rows 2-20, third column) must be
calculated after the application of the inflow and outflow rates.

Adjusted figures of HQLA (row 21, third column) must be calculated after the application of both (i)
haircuts and (ii) any applicable caps (ie cap on Level 2B and Level 2 assets). Adjusted figures of net
cash outflows (row 22, third column) must be calculated after the application of both (i) inflow and
outflow rates and (ii) any applicable cap (ie cap on inflows).

The LCR (row 23) must be calculated as the average of observations of the LCR:




Not all reported figures will sum exactly, particularly in the denominator of the LCR. For example,
"total net cash outflows" (row 22) may not be exactly equal to "total cash outflows" minus "total
cash inflows" (row 16 minus row 20) if the cap on inflows is binding. Similarly, the disclosed LCR
may not be equal to an LCR computed on the basis on the average values of the set of line items
disclosed in the template.

Definitions and instructions:

Columns

Unweighted values must be calculated as outstanding balances maturing or callable within 30 days
(for inflows and outflows).

Weighted values must be calculated after the application of respective haircuts (for HQLA) or inflow
and outflow rates (for inflows and outflows).

Adjusted values must be calculated after the application of both (i) haircuts and inflow and outflow
rates and (ii) any applicable caps (ie cap on Level 2B and Level 2 assets for HQLA and cap on
inflows).





Row      Explanation                                                                Relevant
number                                                                              paragraph(s) of
                                                                                    LCR40

1        Sum of all eligible HQLA, as defined in the standard, before the           LCR30.13 to
         application of any limits, excluding assets that do not meet the           LCR30.34,
         operational requirements, and including, where applicable, assets          LCR31.1, LCR31.
         qualifying under alternative liquidity approaches.                         12 to LCR31.17,
                                                                                    LCR31.21

2        Retail deposits and deposits from small business customers are the         LCR40.5 to
         sum of stable deposits, less stable deposits and any other funding         LCR40.18,
         sourced from (i) natural persons and/or (ii) small business customers      LCR40.22 to
         (as defined by CRE30.20 and CRE30.21).                                     LCR40.25

3        Stable deposits include deposits placed with a bank by a natural           LCR40.5 to
         person and unsecured wholesale funding provided by small business          LCR40.12 ,
         customers, defined as "stable" in the standard.                            LCR40.22 to
                                                                                    LCR40.24

4        Less stable deposits include deposits placed with a bank by a natural      LCR40.5 and
         person and unsecured wholesale funding provided by small business          LCR40.6, LCR40.
         customers, not defined as "stable" in the standard.                        13 to LCR40.15,
                                                                                    LCR40.22 to
                                                                                    LCR40.24

5        Unsecured wholesale funding is defined as those liabilities and            LCR40.26 to
         general obligations from customers other than natural persons and          LCR40.44
         small business customers that are not collateralised.

6        Operational deposits include deposits from bank clients with a             LCR40.26 to
         substantive dependency on the bank where deposits are required for         LCR40.39
         certain activities (ie clearing, custody or cash management activities).
         Deposits in institutional networks of cooperative banks include
         deposits of member institutions with the central institution or
         specialised central service providers.

7        Non-operational deposits are all other unsecured wholesale deposits,       LCR40.40 to
         both insured and uninsured                                                 LCR40.42

8        Unsecured debt includes all notes, bonds and other debt securities         LCR40.43
         issued by the bank, regardless of the holder, unless the bond is sold
         exclusively in the retail market and held in retail accounts.

9        Secured wholesale funding is defined as all collateralised liabilities     LCR40.45 to
         and general obligations.                                                   LCR40.48

10       Additional requirements include other off-balance sheet liabilities or     LCR40.45 to
         obligations                                                                LCR40.64

11       Outflows related to derivative exposures and other collateral              LCR40.45 to




        requirements include expected contractual derivatives cash flows on          LCR40.56
        a net basis. These outflows also include increased liquidity needs
        related to: downgrade triggers embedded in financing transactions,
        derivative and other contracts; the potential for valuation changes on
        posted collateral securing derivatives and other transactions; excess
        non-segregated collateral held at the bank that could contractually
        be called at any time; contractually required collateral on
        transactions for which the counterparty has not yet demanded that
        the collateral be posted; contracts that allow collateral substitution to
        non-HQLA assets; and market valuation changes on derivatives or
        other transactions.

12      Outflows related to loss of funding on secured debt products include         LCR40.57 and
        loss of funding on: asset-backed securities, covered bonds and other         LCR40.58
        structured financing instruments; and asset-backed commercial
        paper, conduits, securities investment vehicles and other such
        financing facilities.

13      Credit and liquidity facilities include drawdowns on committed               LCR40.59 to
        (contractually irrevocable) or conditionally revocable credit and            LCR40.64
        liquidity facilities. The currently undrawn portion of these facilities is
        calculated net of any eligible HQLA if the HQLA have already been
        posted as collateral to secure the facilities or that are contractually
        obliged to be posted when the counterparty draws down the facility.

14      Other contractual funding obligations include contractual obligations        LCR40.65,
        to extend funds within a 30-day period and other contractual cash            LCR40.66, and,
        outflows not previously captured under the standard.                         LCR40.74

15      Other contingent funding obligations, as defined in the standard.            LCR40.67 to
                                                                                     LCR40.73

16      Total cash outflows: sum of rows 2-15.

17      Secured lending includes all maturing reverse repurchase and                 LCR40.78 to
        securities borrowing agreements.                                             LCR40.80

18      Inflows from fully performing exposures include both secured and             LCR40.86,
        unsecured loans or other payments that are fully performing and              LCR40.87,
        contractually due within 30 calendar days from retail and small              LCR40.89 and
        business customers, other wholesale customers, operational deposits          LCR40.90
        and deposits held at the centralised institution in a cooperative
        banking network.

19      Other cash inflows include derivatives cash inflows and other                LCR40.88,
        contractual cash inflows.                                                    LCR40.91 to
                                                                                     LCR40.93

20      Total cash inflows: sum of rows 17-19

21      Total HQLA (after the application of any cap on Level 2B and Level 2         LCR30.13 to


        assets).                                                                 LCR30.31,
                                                                                 LCR30.33 to
                                                                                 LCR30.37,
                                                                                 LCR30.40 to
                                                                                 LCR30.45

22      Total net cash outflows (after the application of any cap on cash        LCR40.1
        inflows).

23      Liquidity Coverage Ratio (after the application of any cap on Level 2B   LCR20.4
        and Level 2 assets and caps on cash inflows).

Template LIQ2: Net Stable Funding Ratio (NSFR)




Purpose: Provide details of a bank's NSFR and selected details of its NSFR components.

Scope of application: The template is mandatory for all banks.

Content: Data must be presented as quarter-end observations in the local currency.

Frequency: Semiannual (but including two data sets covering the latest and the previous quarter-
ends).

Format: Fixed.

Accompanying narrative: Banks should provide a sufficient qualitative discussion on the NSFR to
facilitate an understanding of the results and the accompanying data. For example, where
significant, banks could discuss:

(a)     the drivers of their NSFR results and the reasons for intra-period changes as well as the
        changes over time (eg changes in strategies, funding structure, circumstances); and

(b)      the composition of the bank's interdependent assets and liabilities (as defined in NSF30.35
        to NSF30.37) and to what extent these transactions are interrelated.


                                             Unweighted value by residual maturity

                                             No         less than 6            6       less than  1 year
                                                       months      months                 Weighted
                                           maturity                to less than 1
(In currency amount)                                                year                    value

Available stable funding (ASF) item

1     Capital:

2        Regulatory capital

3        Other capital instruments

4     Retail deposits and deposits
      from small business customers:

5        Stable deposits

6        Less stable deposits

7     Wholesale funding:

8        Operational deposits


9       Other wholesale funding

10   Liabilities with matching
     interdependent assets

11   Other liabilities:

12      NSFR derivative liabilities

13      All other liabilities and equity
        not included in the above
        categories

14   Total ASF

Required stable funding (RSF) item

15   Total NSFR high-quality liquid
     assets (HQLA)

16   Deposits held at other financial
     institutions for operational
     purposes

17   Performing loans and securities:

18      Performing loans to financial
        institutions secured by Level 1
        HQLA

19      Performing loans to financial
        institutions secured by non-
        Level 1 HQLA and unsecured
        performing loans to financial
        institutions

20      Performing loans to non-
        financial corporate clients,
        loans to retail and small
        business customers, and loans
        to sovereigns, central banks
        and PSEs, of which:

21          With a risk weight of less
            than or equal to 35% under
            the Basel II standardised
            approach for credit risk

22



         Performing residential
         mortgages, of which:

23          With a risk weight of less
            than or equal to 35% under
            the Basel II standardised
            approach for credit risk

24       Securities that are not in
         default and do not qualify as
         HQLA, including exchange-
         traded equities

25    Assets with matching
      interdependent liabilities

26    Other assets:

27       Physical traded commodities,
         including gold

28       Assets posted as initial margin
         for derivative contracts and
         contributions to default funds
         of central counterparties

29       NSFR derivative assets

30       NSFR derivative liabilities
         before deduction of variation
         margin posted

31       All other assets not included in
         the above categories

32    Off-balance sheet items

33    Total RSF

34    Net Stable Funding Ratio (%)

General instructions for completion of the NSFR disclosure template

Rows in the template are set and compulsory for all banks. Key points to note about the common
template are:


      Dark grey rows introduce a section of the NSFR template.

      Light grey rows represent a broad subcomponent category of the NSFR in the relevant
      section.
      Unshaded rows represent a subcomponent within the major categories under ASF and RSF
      items. As an exception, rows 21 and 23 are subcomponents of rows 20 and 22, respectively.
      Row 17 is the sum of rows 18, 19, 20, 22 and 24.
      No data should be entered for the cross-hatched cells.
      Figures entered in the template should be the quarter-end observations of individual line
      items.
      Figures entered for each RSF line item should include both unencumbered and encumbered
      amounts.
      Figures entered in unweighted columns are to be assigned on the basis of residual maturity
      and in accordance with NSF30.7 and NSF30.17.

Items to be reported in the "no maturity" time bucket do not have a stated maturity. These may
include, but are not limited to, items such as capital with perpetual maturity, non-maturity
deposits, short positions, open maturity positions, non-HQLA equities and physical traded
commodities.

Explanation of each row of the common disclosure template

Row        Explanation                                                           Relevant
number                                                                           paragraph(s) of
                                                                                 NSF30

1          Capital is the sum of rows 2 and 3.

2          Regulatory capital before the application of capital deductions, as   NSF30.10(1),
           defined in CAP10.1.                                                   NSF30.13(4)
                                                                                 and NSF30.14
           Capital instruments reported should meet all requirements outlined    (1)
           in CAP10, and should only include amounts after transitional
           arrangements in CAP90 have expired under fully implemented Basel
           III standards (ie as in 2022).

3          Total amount of any capital instruments not included in row 2.        NSF30.10(2),
                                                                                 NSF30.13(4)
                                                                                 and NSF30.14
                                                                                 (1)

4          Retail deposits and deposits from small business customers, as
           defined in the LCR LCR40.5 to LCR40.18 and LCR40.22 to LCR40.25,
           are the sum of row 5 and 6.

5          Stable deposits comprise "stable" (as defined in LCR40.7 to LCR40.    NSF30.10(3)
           12) non-maturity (demand) deposits and/or term deposits provided      and NSF30.11
           by retail and small business customers.

6          Less stable deposits comprise "less stable" (as defined in LCR40.13   NSF30.10(3)
           to LCR40.15) non-maturity (demand) deposits and/or term deposits      and NSF30.12
           provided by retail and small business customers.


7        Wholesale funding is the sum of rows 8 and 9.

8        Operational deposits: as defined in LCR40.26 to LCR40.36, including    NSF30.10(3),
         deposits in institutional networks of cooperative banks.               NSF30.13(2)
                                                                                and NSF30.14
                                                                                (1), including
                                                                                footnote 7.

9        Other wholesale funding includes funding (secured and unsecured)       NSF30.10(3),
         provided by non-financial corporate customer, sovereigns, public       NSF30.13(1),
         sector entities (PSEs), multilateral and national development banks,   NSF30.13(3),
         central banks and financial institutions.                              NSF30.13(4),
                                                                                and NSF30.14
                                                                                (1).

10       Liabilities with matching interdependent assets.                       NSF30.35 to
                                                                                NSF30.37

11       Other liabilities are the sum of rows 12 and 13.

12       In the unweighted cells, report NSFR derivatives liabilities as        NSF30.8,
         calculated according to NSFR paragraphs 19 and 20. There is no         NSF30.9,
         need to differentiate by maturities.                                   NSF30.14(3)

         [The weighted value under NSFR derivative liabilities is cross-
         hatched given that it will be zero after the 0% ASF is applied.]

13       All other liabilities and equity not included in above categories.     NSF30.14(1),
                                                                                NSF30.14(2)],
                                                                                and NSF30.14
                                                                                (4)

14       Total available stable funding (ASF) is the sum of all weighted
         values in rows 1, 4, 7, 10 and 11.

15       Total HQLA as defined in LCR30.32, LCR30.40] to LCR30.45, LCR31.1,     Footnote 9,
         LCR31.4 to LCR31.6, LCR31.12 to LCR31.17, LCR31.21 and LCR31.47        NSF30.25(1)
         (encumbered and unencumbered), without regard to LCR                   and NSF30.25
         operational requirements and LCR caps on Level 2 and Level 2B          (2), NSF30.26,
         assets that might otherwise limit the ability of some HQLA to be       NSF30.28(1),
         included as eligible in calculation of the LCR:                        NSF30.29(1)
                                                                                and NSF30.29
         (a)    Encumbered assets including assets backing securities or        (2), NSF30.31
               covered bonds.                                                   (1) and NSF30.
                                                                                32(1)
         (b)        Unencumbered means free of legal, regulatory,
         contractual or other restrictions on the ability of the bank to
         liquidate, sell, transfer or assign the asset.

16       Deposits held at other financial institutions for operational          NSF30.29(4)
         purposes as defined in LCR40.26 to LCR40.36.

17       Performing loans and securities are the sum of rows 18, 19, 20, 22
         and 24.

18       Performing loans to financial institutions secured by Level 1 HQLA,    NSF30.27,
         as defined in the LCR LCR30.41(3) to LCR30.41(5).                      NSF30.29(3)
                                                                                and NSF30.32
                                                                                (3)

19       Performing loans to financial institutions secured by non-Level 1      NSF30.29(2),
         HQLA and unsecured performing loans to financial institutions.         NSF30.29(3)
                                                                                and NSF30.32
                                                                                (3)

20       Performing loans to non-financial corporate clients, loans to retail   NSF30.25(3),
         and small business customers, and loans to sovereigns, central         NSF30.29(5),
         banks and PSEs.                                                        NSF30.30(2),
                                                                                NSF30.31(2)
                                                                                and NSF30.32
                                                                                (1)

21       Performing loans to non-financial corporate clients, loans to retail   NSF30.25(3),
         and small business customers, and loans to sovereigns, central         NSF30.29(5),
         banks and PSEs with risk weight of less than or equal to 35% under     NSF30.30(2)
         the Standardised Approach.                                             and NSF30.32
                                                                                (1)

22       Performing residential mortgages.                                      NSF30.29(5),
                                                                                NSF30.30(1),
                                                                                NSF30.31(2)
                                                                                and NSF30.32
                                                                                (1)

23       Performing residential mortgages with risk weight of less than or      NSF30.29(5),
         equal to 35% under the Standardised Approach.                          NSF30.30(1)
                                                                                and NSF30.32
                                                                                (1)

24       Securities that are not in default and do not qualify as HQLA          NSF30.29(5),
         including exchange-traded equities.                                    NSF30.31(3),
                                                                                and NSF30.32
                                                                                (1)

25       Assets with matching interdependent liabilities.                       NSF30.35 to
                                                                                NSF30.37

26       Other assets are the sum of rows 27-31.


27       Physical traded commodities, including gold.                             NSF30.31(4)

28       Cash, securities or other assets posted as initial margin for            NSF30.31(1)
         derivative contracts and contributions to default funds of central
         counterparties.

29       In the unweighted cell, report NSFR derivative assets, as calculated     NSF30.23,
         according to NSF30.23 and NSF30.24. There is no need to                  NSF30.24 and
         differentiate by maturities.                                             NSF30.32(2)

         In the weighted cell, if NSFR derivative assets are greater than NSFR
         derivative liabilities, (as calculated according to NSF30.8 and NSF30.
         9), report the positive difference between NSFR derivative assets
         and NSFR derivative liabilities.

30       In the unweighted cell, report derivative liabilities as calculated      NSF30.8 and
         according to NSF30.8, ie before deducting variation margin posted.       NSF30.32(4)
         There is no need to differentiate by maturities.

         In the weighted cell, report 20% of derivatives liabilities'
         unweighted value (subject to 100% RSF).

31       All other assets not included in the above categories.                   NSF30.25(4)
                                                                                  and NSF30.32
                                                                                  (3)

32       Off-balance sheet items.                                                 NSF30.33 and
                                                                                  NSF30.34

33       Total RSF is the sum of all weighted value in rows 15, 16, 17, 25, 26
         and 32.

34       Net Stable Funding Ratio (%), as stated NSF20.                           NSF20.2



                                 DIS99
                                 Worked examples
                                 This chapter provides worked examples of how
                                 to complete Template CR3, Template CCR5 and
                                 Template MR2.


                                Interpretation of the effective date - illustration
99.1   The following table illustrates the application of paragraph DIS10.4 by specifying
       the first applicable fiscal period for disclosure requirements according to their
       frequency, using as example a bank with a fiscal year coinciding with the calendar
       year (case 1), a bank with a fiscal year ending in October of the same calendar
       year (case 2), and a bank with a fiscal year ending in March of the following
       calendar year (case 3).

       (1) Banks with fiscal year from 1 January to 31 December:

           (a) The first fiscal quarter subject to quarterly disclosure requirements with
               an "effective as of" date of 1 January of a given year will be the first
               fiscal quarter, ending in 31 March of that calendar year. The first fiscal
               quarter subject to quarterly disclosure requirements with an "effective
               as of" date of 31 December of a given year will be the fourth fiscal
               quarter, ending in 31 December of that calendar year.

           (b) The first fiscal semester subject to semiannual disclosure requirements
               with an "effective as of" date of 1 January of a given year will be the first
               fiscal semester, ending in 31 June of that calendar year. The first fiscal
               semester subject to semiannual disclosure requirements with an
               "effective as of" date of 31 December of a given year will be the second
               fiscal semester, ending in 31 December of that calendar year.

           (c)   The first fiscal year subject to annual disclosure requirements with an
                 "effective as of" date of 1 January of a given year will be the fiscal year
                 starting in 1 January of that calendar year. The first fiscal year subject to
                 annual disclosure requirements with an "effective as of" date of 31
                 December of a given year will be the fiscal year ending in that same 31
                 December of that calendar year.



     (2) Banks with fiscal year from 1 November of the previous calendar year to 31
         October:

         (a) The first fiscal quarter subject to quarterly disclosure requirements with
             an "effective as of" date of 1 January of a given year will be the first
             fiscal quarter, ending in 31 January of that calendar year. The first fiscal
             quarter subject to quarterly disclosure requirements with an "effective
             as of" date of 31 December of a given year will be the first fiscal quarter,
             ending in 31 January of the following calendar year.

         (b) The first fiscal semester subject to semiannual disclosure requirements
             with an "effective as of" date of 1 January of a given year will be the first
             fiscal semester, ending in 31 April of that calendar year. The first fiscal
               semester subject to semiannual disclosure requirements with an
               "effective as of" date of 31 December of a given year will be the first
               fiscal semester, ending in 31 April of the following calendar year.

         (c)   The first fiscal year subject to annual disclosure requirements with an
               "effective as of" date of 1 January of a given year will be the fiscal year
               starting in 1 November of the previous calendar year. The first fiscal
               year subject to annual disclosure requirements with an "effective as of"
               date of 31 December of a given year will be the fiscal year ending in 31
               October of the following calendar year.



       (3) Banks with fiscal year from 1 April to 31 March of the next calendar year:

           (a) The first fiscal quarter subject to quarterly disclosure requirements with
               an "effective as of" date of 1 January of a given year will be the fourth
               fiscal quarter, ending in 31 March of that calendar year. The first fiscal
               quarter subject to quarterly disclosure requirements with an "effective
               as of" date of 31 December of a given year will be the third fiscal
               quarter, ending in 31 December of that calendar year.

           (b) The first fiscal semester subject to semiannual disclosure requirements
               with an "effective as of" date of 1 January of a given year will be the
               second fiscal semester, ending in 31 March of that calendar year. The
               first fiscal semester subject to semiannual disclosure requirements with
               an "effective as of" date of 31 December of a given year will be the
               second fiscal semester, ending in 31 March of the following calendar
               year.

           (c)   The first fiscal year subject to annual disclosure requirements with an
                 "effective as of" date of 1 January of a given year will be the fiscal year
                 starting in 1 April of the previous calendar year. The first fiscal year


                 subject to annual disclosure requirements with an "effective as of" date
                 of 31 December of a given year will be the fiscal year ending in 31
                 March of the following calendar year.


Template CR3 – illustration
99.2   The following scenarios illustrate how Template CR3 should be completed.




Unsecured exposures: carrying
amount
Exposures to be secured
Exposures secured by
collateral
Exposures secured by financial
guarantees
Exposures secured by credit
derivatives


              One secured loan of
             100 with collateral of
               120 (after haircut)
             and guarantees of 50
      (i)                                   0         100         50          50             0
             (after haircut), if bank
                  expects that
              guarantee would be
                extinguished first

              One secured loan of
             100 with collateral of
               120 (after haircut)
             and guarantees of 50
      (ii)                                  0         100        100           0             0
             (after haircut), if bank
             expects that collateral
                    would be
                extinguished first

             Secured exposure of
             100 partially secured:
             50 by collateral (after
     (iii)       haircut), 30 by            0         100         50          30             0
              financial guarantee
              (after haircut), none
              by credit derivatives

             One unsecured loan
                 of 20 and one
              secured loan of 80.
              The secured loan is
              over-collateralised:
             60 by collateral (after
      (iv)       haircut), 90 by            20         80         60          20             0
                guarantee (after
               haircut), none by
              credit derivatives. If
               bank expects that
              collateral would be
               extinguished first.

             One unsecured loan
               of 20 and one
             secured loan of 80.



Downloaded on 04.05.2022 at 13:44 CEST                                                    1514/1626
             The secured loan is
      (v)   under-collaterised: 50     20          80          50            20            0
             by collateral (after
               haircut), 20 by
              guarantee (after
              haircut), none by
              credit derivatives.

     Definitions

     Exposures unsecured- carrying amount: carrying amount of exposures (net of allowances
     /impairments) that do not benefit from a credit risk mitigation technique.

     Exposures to be secured: carrying amount of exposures which have at least one credit risk
     mitigation mechanism (collateral, financial guarantees, credit derivatives) associated with
     them. The allocation of the carrying amount of multi-secured exposures to their different
     credit risk mitigation mechanisms is made by order of priority, starting with the credit risk
     mitigation mechanism expected to be called first in the event of loss, and within the limits
     of the carrying amount of the secured exposures.

     Exposures secured by collateral: carrying amount of exposures (net of allowances
     /impairments) partly or totally secured by collateral. In case an exposure is secured by
     collateral and other credit risk mitigation mechanism(s), the carrying amount of the
     exposures secured by collateral is the remaining share of the exposure secured by collateral
     after consideration of the shares of the exposure already secured by other mitigation
     mechanisms expected to be called beforehand in the event of a loss, without considering
     overcollateralisation.

     Exposures secured by financial guarantees: carrying amount of exposures (net of allowances
     /impairments) partly or totally secured by financial guarantees. In case an exposure is
     secured by financial guarantees and other credit risk mitigation mechanism, the carrying
     amount of the exposure secured by financial guarantees is the remaining share of the
     exposure secured by financial guarantees after consideration of the shares of the exposure
     already secured by other mitigation mechanisms expected to be called beforehand in the
     event of a loss, without considering overcollateralisation.

     Exposures secured by credit derivatives: carrying amount of exposures (net of allowances
     /impairments) partly or totally secured by credit derivatives. In case an exposure is secured
     by credit derivatives and other credit risk mitigation mechanism(s), the carrying amount of
     the exposure secured by credit derivatives is the remaining share of the exposure secured
     by credit derivatives after consideration of the shares of the exposure already secured by
     other mitigation mechanisms expected to be called beforehand in the event of a loss,
     without considering overcollateralisation.


Template CCR5 - illustration
99.3   The case below illustrates the cash and security legs of two securities lending
       transactions in Template CCR5:

       (1) Repo on foreign sovereign debt with $50 cash received and $55 collateral
           posted

       (2) Reverse repo on domestic sovereign debt with $80 cash paid and $90
           collateral received


                                         Collateral used in securities financing transactions (SFTs)

                                       Fair value of collateral  received       Fair value of  collateral posted
                                                              

            Cash - domestic currency                                                 80

            Cash - other currencies                   50

            Domestic sovereign debt                   90

            Other sovereign debt                                                     55

            -

            Total                                    140                             135




Template MR2 – illustration
99.4   The table below shows how for Template MR2, the bank may add an additional
       row for regulatory adjustment in order to provide the reconciliation required as
       well as the key drivers' amounts, if the derived risk-weighted assets (RWA) from
       the capital requirement is calculated from the 60-day average.





                                         Value-at-risk (VaR)
                                                             VaR           VaR         VaR
                                             

                                            Case 1          Case 2       Case 3       Case 4

            RWA at previous quarter-end       60-day average        End-of-day value     60-day average      End-of-day value
       1
                                                         


                                           60-day  average/end                   
                                           of period                         60-day average/end   of period
       a    Regulatory adjustment
                                                         

            RWA at previous quarter-end (end of day)      End-of-day value                  End-of-day value
       b
                                                 

       2    Movement in risk levels

       3    Model updates/changes

       4    Methodology and policy

       5    Acquisitions and disposals

            Foreign exchange
       6
            movement

       7    Others

            RWA at end of reporting  period (end of day)    End-of-day value     End-of-day value
       8a
                                  

                                            ∆ 60-day  average/end   of period      ∆ 60-day average/end  of period
       8b   Regulatory adjustment           

            RWA at end of reporting period     60-day average         60-day average        End-of-day value    End-of-day value
       8c
                                                        

                                 BCP
                                 Core Principles for effective
                                 banking supervision
                                 The Basel Core Principles provide a
                                 comprehensive standard for establishing a
                                 sound foundation for the regulation, supervision,
                                 governance and risk management of the
                                 banking sector.




                                 BCP01
                                 The core principles
                                 This chapter describes the Core Principles, the
                                 preconditions for effective banking supervision,
                                 the assessment methodology and criteria for
                                 assessing compliance.


                                Last review of the Core Principles
01.1   The Core Principles for Effective Banking Supervision (Core Principles) are the de
       facto minimum standard for sound prudential regulation and supervision of
       banks and banking systems. Originally issued by the Basel Committee on Banking
       Supervision (the Committee) in 1997, they are used by countries as a benchmark
       for assessing the quality of their supervisory systems and for identifying future
       work to achieve a baseline level of sound supervisory practices. The Core
       Principles are also used by the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World
       Bank, in the context of the Financial Sector Assessment Programme (FSAP), to
       assess the effectiveness of countries’ banking supervisory systems and practices.

01.2   In March 2011, the Core Principles Group1 was mandated by the Committee to
       review and update the Core Principles. The Committee’s mandate was to conduct
       the review taking into account significant developments in the global financial
       markets and regulatory landscape since October 2006 (when the Core Principles
       had last been revised), including post-crisis lessons for promoting sound
       supervisory systems. The intent was to ensure the continued relevance of the
       Core Principles for promoting effective banking supervision in all countries over
       time and changing environments.


The Core Principles Group consisted of members from the Committee
                   and the Basel Consultative Group, which comprises representatives
                   from both Committee and non-Committee member countries and
                   regional groups of banking supervisors, as well as the IMF, the World
                   Bank and the Islamic Financial Services Board.

  See, for example, the November 2010 Financial Stability Board report
                   on Intensity and Effectiveness of Systemically Important Financial
                   Institution Supervision; the January 2010 Joint Forum report on Review
                   of the Differentiated Nature and Scope of Financial Regulation – Key
                   Issues and Recommendations; and the October 2009 Senior Supervisors
                   Group report on Risk Management Lessons from the Global Banking
                   Crisis of 2008.



01.3   In conducting the 2011 review, the Committee sought to achieve the right
       balance in raising the bar for sound supervision while retaining the Core
       Principles as a flexible, globally applicable standard. By reinforcing the
       proportionality concept, the revised Core Principles and their assessment criteria
       accommodate a diverse range of banking systems. The proportionate approach
       also allows assessments of compliance with the Core Principles that are
       commensurate with the risk profile and systemic importance of a broad spectrum
       of banks (from large internationally active banks to small, non-complex deposit-
       taking institutions).

01.4   Both the Core Principles and the associated Core Principles Methodology
       (assessment methodology) have served their purpose well in terms of helping
       countries to assess their supervisory systems and identify areas for improvement.
       While conscious efforts were made during the 2011 review to maintain continuity
       and comparability as far as possible, the Committee merged the Core Principles
       and the assessment methodology into a single comprehensive document. The
       revised set of twenty-nine Core Principles were also reorganised to foster their
       implementation through a more logical structure starting with supervisory
       powers, responsibilities and functions, and followed by supervisory expectations
       of banks, emphasising the importance of good corporate governance and risk
       management, as well as compliance with supervisory standards.


  The Core Principles Methodology was separately developed in 1999
                   and subsequently revised in 2006 to provide further details and
                   guidance on the assessment criteria and the assessment of compliance
                   with the Core Principles.



01.5   Important enhancements were introduced into the individual Core Principles
       during the review, particularly in those areas that are necessary to strengthen
       supervisory practices and risk management. Various additional criteria were
       upgraded to essential criteria as a result, while new assessment criteria were
       warranted in other instances. Close attention was given to addressing many of
       the significant risk management weaknesses and other vulnerabilities highlighted
       in the last crisis. In addition, the review took account of several key trends and
       developments that emerged during the last few years of market turmoil: the need
       for greater intensity and resources to deal effectively with systemically important
       banks; the importance of applying a system-wide, macro perspective to the
       microprudential supervision of banks to assist in identifying, analysing and taking
       pre-emptive action to address systemic risk; and the increasing focus on effective
       crisis management, recovery and resolution measures in reducing both the
       probability and impact of a bank failure. The Committee sought to give
       appropriate emphasis to these emerging issues by embedding them into the
       Core Principles, as appropriate, and including specific references under each
       relevant Principle.

01.6   In addition, sound corporate governance underpins effective risk management
       and public confidence in individual banks and the banking system. Given
       fundamental deficiencies in banks’ corporate governance that were exposed in
       the last crisis, a new Core Principle on corporate governance was added in this
       review by bringing together existing corporate governance criteria in the
       assessment methodology and giving greater emphasis to sound corporate
       governance practices. Similarly, the Committee reiterated the key role of robust
       market discipline in fostering a safe and sound banking system by expanding an
       existing Core Principle into two new ones dedicated respectively to greater public
       disclosure and transparency, and enhanced financial reporting and external audit.

01.7   Previously, the grading of compliance with the Core Principles was based solely
       on the essential criteria. To provide incentives to jurisdictions, particularly those
       that are important financial centres, to lead the way in the adoption of the
       highest supervisory standards, the revised Core Principles allow countries the
       additional option of voluntarily choosing to be assessed and graded against the
       essential and additional criteria. In the same spirit of promoting full and robust
       implementation, the Committee retained the existing four-grade scale of
       assessing compliance with the Core Principles. This includes the current
       “materially non-compliant” grading that helps provide a strong signalling effect
       to relevant authorities on remedial measures needed for addressing supervisory
       and regulatory shortcomings in their countries.




01.8   The revised Core Principles continue to provide a comprehensive standard for
       establishing a sound foundation for the regulation, supervision, governance and
       risk management of the banking sector. Given the importance of consistent and
       effective standards implementation, the Committee stands ready to encourage
       work at the national level to implement the revised Core Principles in conjunction
       with other supervisory bodies and interested parties.


Foreword to the Core Principles
01.9   The revised Core Principles strengthen the requirements for supervisors, the
       approaches to supervision and supervisors’ expectations of banks. This is
       achieved through a greater focus on effective risk-based supervision and the
       need for early intervention and timely supervisory actions. Supervisors should
       assess the risk profile of banks, in terms of the risks they run, the efficacy of their
       risk management and the risks they pose to the banking and financial systems.
       This risk-based process targets supervisory resources where they can be utilised
       to the best effect, focusing on outcomes as well as processes, moving beyond
       passive assessment of compliance with rules.

01.10 The Core Principles set out the powers that supervisors should have in order to
      address safety and soundness concerns. It is equally crucial that supervisors use
      these powers once weaknesses or deficiencies are identified. Adopting a forward-
      looking approach to supervision through early intervention can prevent an
      identified weakness from developing into a threat to safety and soundness. This
      is particularly true for highly complex and bank-specific issues (eg liquidity risk)
      where effective supervisory actions must be tailored to a bank’s individual
      circumstances.

01.11 In its efforts to strengthen, reinforce and refocus the Core Principles, the
      Committee has nonetheless remained mindful of their underlying purpose and
      use. The Committee’s intention is to ensure the continued relevance of the Core
      Principles in providing a benchmark for supervisory practices that will withstand
      the test of time and changing environments. For this reason, this revision of the
      Core Principles builds upon the preceding versions to ensure continuity and
      comparability as far as possible.

01.12 In recognition of the universal applicability of the Core Principles, the Committee
      conducted its review in close cooperation with members of the Basel Consultative
      Group which comprises representatives from both Committee and non-
      Committee member countries and regional groups of banking supervisors, as
      well as the IMF, the World Bank and the Islamic Financial Services Board. The
      Committee consulted the industry and public before finalising the text.




General approach

01.13 The first Core Principle sets out the promotion of safety and soundness of banks
      and the banking system as the primary objective for banking supervision.
      Jurisdictions may assign other responsibilities to the banking supervisor provided
      they do not conflict with this primary objective. It should not be an objective of
      banking supervision to prevent bank failures. However, supervision should aim to
      reduce the probability and impact of a bank failure, including by working with
      resolution authorities, so that when failure occurs, it is in an orderly manner.


 The banking supervisor might, for instance, in some jurisdictions be
                   tasked with responsibilities for: (i) depositor protection; (ii) financial
                   stability; (iii) consumer protection; or (iv) financial inclusion.


01.14 To fulfil their purpose, the Core Principles must be capable of application to a
      wide range of jurisdictions whose banking sectors will inevitably include a broad
      spectrum of banks (from large internationally active banks to small, non-complex
      deposit-taking institutions). Banking systems may also offer a wide range of
      products or services and the Core Principles are aligned with the general aim of
      catering to different financial needs. To accommodate this breadth of application,
      a proportionate approach is adopted, both in terms of the expectations on
      supervisors for the discharge of their own functions and in terms of the standards
      that supervisors impose on banks. Consequently, the Core Principles
      acknowledge that supervisors typically use a risk-based approach in which more
      time and resources are devoted to larger, more complex or riskier banks. In the
      context of the standards imposed by supervisors on banks, the proportionality
      concept is reflected in those Principles focused on supervisors’ assessment of
      banks’ risk management, where the Principles prescribe a level of supervisory
      expectation commensurate with a bank’s risk profile and systemic importance.

 In this document, “risk profile” refers to the nature and scale of the risk
                   exposures undertaken by a bank.

In this document, “systemic importance” is determined by the size,
                   interconnectedness, substitutability, global or cross-jurisdictional
                   activity (if any), and complexity of the bank, as set out in SCO40,
                   SCO50 and RBC40.

01.15 Successive revisions to existing Committee standards and guidance, and any new
      standards and guidance will be designed to strengthen the regulatory regime.
      Supervisors are encouraged to move towards the adoption of updated and new
      international supervisory standards as they are issued.


Approach toward emerging trends and developments

01.16 In the aftermath of the crisis, much attention has been focused on systemically
      important banks (SIBs), and the regulations and supervisory powers needed to
      deal with them effectively. Consideration was given by the Committee during the
      2011 review to including a new Core Principle to cover SIBs. However, it was
      concluded that SIBs, which require greater intensity of supervision and hence
      resources, represent one end of the supervisory spectrum of banks. Each Core
      Principle applies to the supervision of all banks. The expectations on, and of,
      supervisors will need to be of a higher order for SIBs, commensurate with the risk
      profile and systemic importance of these banks. Therefore, it is unnecessary to
      include a specific stand-alone Core Principle for SIBs.

01.17 The crisis highlighted the interface between, and the complementary nature of,
      the macroprudential and microprudential elements of effective supervision. In
      their application of a risk-based supervisory approach, supervisors and other
      authorities need to assess risk in a broader context than that of the balance sheet
      of individual banks. For example, the prevailing macroeconomic environment,
      business trends, and the build-up and concentration of risk across the banking
      sector and, indeed, outside of it, inevitably impact the risk exposure of individual
      banks. Bank-specific supervision should therefore consider this macro
      perspective. Individual bank data, where appropriate, data at sector level and
      aggregate trend data collected by supervisors should be incorporated into the
      deliberations of authorities relevant for financial stability purposes (whether part
      of, or separate from, the supervisor) to assist in identification and analysis of
      systemic risk. The relevant authorities should have the ability to take pre-emptive
      action to address systemic risks. Supervisors should have access to relevant
      financial stability analyses or assessments conducted by other authorities that
      affect the banking system. This broad financial system perspective is integral to
      many of the Core Principles. For this reason, the Committee has not included a
      specific stand-alone Core Principle on macroprudential issues.


01.18 In supervising an individual bank which is part of a corporate group, it is essential
      that supervisors consider the bank and its risk profile from a number of
      perspectives: on a solo basis (but with both a micro and macro focus as discussed
      above); on a consolidated basis (in the sense of supervising the bank as a unit
      together with the other entities within the “banking group”) and on a group-
      wide basis (taking into account the potential risks to the bank posed by other
      group entities outside of the banking group). Group entities (whether within or
       outside the banking group) may be a source of strength but they may also be a
       source of weakness capable of adversely affecting the financial condition,
       reputation and overall safety and soundness of the bank. The Core Principles
       include a specific Core Principle on the consolidated supervision of banking
       groups, but they also note the importance of parent companies and other non-
       banking group entities in any assessment of the risks run by a bank or banking
       group. This supervisory “risk perimeter” extends beyond accounting consolidation
       concepts. In the discharge of their functions, supervisors must observe a broad
       canvas of risk, whether arising from within an individual bank, from its associated
       entities or from the prevailing macro financial environment.


 In the BCP standard, “banking group” includes the holding company,
                   the bank and its offices, subsidiaries, affiliates and joint ventures, both
                   domestic and foreign. Risks from other entities in the wider group, for
                   example non-bank (including non-financial) entities, may also be
                   relevant. This group-wide approach to supervision goes beyond
                   accounting consolidation. The scope of consolidation used as the basis
                   for all other Basel requirements is set out in the SCO standard.


01.19 Supervisors should also remain alert to the movement, or build-up, of financial
      activities outside the regulated banking sector (the development of “shadow
      banking” structures) and the potential risks this may create. Data or information
      on this should also be shared with any other authorities relevant for financial
      stability purposes.

01.20 Although it is not a supervisor’s role to prevent bank failures, supervisory
      oversight is designed to reduce both the probability and impact of such failures.
      Banks will, from time to time, run into difficulties, and to minimise the adverse
      impact both on the troubled bank and on the banking and financial sectors as a
      whole, effective crisis preparation and management, and orderly resolution
      frameworks and measures are required. Such measures may be viewed from two
      perspectives:




       (1) the measures to be adopted by supervisory and other authorities (including
           developing resolution plans and in terms of information sharing and
           cooperation with other authorities, both domestic and cross-border, to
           coordinate an orderly restructuring or resolution of a troubled bank); and

       (2) those to be adopted by banks (including contingency funding plans and
           recovery plans) which should be subject to critical assessment by supervisors
           as part of their ongoing supervision.

01.21 To reflect, and to emphasise, the importance of crisis management, recovery and
      resolution measures, certain Core Principles include specific reference to the
      maintenance and assessment of contingency arrangements.

01.22 Corporate governance shortcomings in banks, examples of which were observed
      during the crisis, can have potentially serious consequences both for the bank
      concerned and, in some cases, for the financial system as a whole. Similarly, the
      crisis served to underline the importance of disclosure and transparency in
      maintaining confidence in banks by allowing market participants to understand
      better a bank’s risk profile and thereby reduce market uncertainties about the
      bank’s financial strength.


Assessment of the Core Principles
01.23 The Core Principles establish a level of sound supervisory practice that can be
      used as a benchmark by supervisors to assess the quality of their supervisory
      systems. They are also used by the IMF and the World Bank, in the context of the
      FSAP, to assess the effectiveness of countries’ banking supervisory systems and
      practices.

01.24 The assessment methodology for the Core Principles includes both essential and
      additional assessment criteria for each Principle.

       (1) Essential criteria set out minimum baseline requirements for sound
           supervisory practices and are of universal applicability to all countries. By
           default, for the purposes of grading, the essential criteria are the only
           elements on which to gauge full compliance with a Core Principle. An
           assessment of a country against the essential criteria must, however,
           recognise that its supervisory practices should be commensurate with the
           risk profile and systemic importance of the banks being supervised. In other
           words, the assessment must consider the context in which the supervisory
           practices are applied. The concept of proportionality underpins all
           assessment criteria even if it is not always directly referenced.





       (2) The additional criteria are suggested best practices that countries having
           advanced banks should aim for. Effective banking supervisory practices are
           not static. They evolve over time as lessons are learned and banking business
           continues to develop and expand. Supervisors are often swift to encourage
           banks to adopt “best practice” and supervisors should demonstrably
           “practice what they preach” in terms of seeking to move continually towards
           the highest supervisory standards. To reinforce this aspiration, the additional
           criteria in the Core Principles set out supervisory practices that exceed
           current baseline expectations but which will contribute to the robustness of
           individual supervisory frameworks. As supervisory practices evolve, it is
           expected that upon each revision of the Core Principles, a number of
           additional criteria will migrate to become essential criteria as expectations on
           baseline standards change. The use of essential criteria and additional
           criteria will, in this sense, contribute to the continuing relevance of the Core
           Principles over time.

01.25 In the past, countries were graded only against the essential criteria, although
      they could volunteer to be assessed against the additional criteria too and benefit
      from assessors’ commentary on how supervisory practices could be enhanced. In
      future, countries undergoing assessments by the IMF and/or the World Bank can
      elect to be graded against the essential and additional criteria. It is anticipated
      that this will provide incentives to jurisdictions, particularly those that are
      important financial centres, to lead the way in the adoption of the highest
      supervisory standards. As with the essential criteria, any assessment against
      additional criteria should recognise the concept of proportionality as discussed
      above.

01.26 It is important to bear in mind that some tasks, such as a correct assessment of
      the macroeconomic environment and the detection of the build-up of dangerous
      trends, do not lend themselves to a rigid compliant/non-compliant structure.
      Although these tasks may be difficult to assess, supervisors should make
      assessments that are as accurate as possible given the information available at
      the time and take reasonable actions to address and mitigate such risks.



01.27 While the publication of the assessments of jurisdictions affords transparency, an
      assessment of one jurisdiction will not be directly comparable to that of another.
      First, assessments will have to reflect proportionality. Thus, a jurisdiction that is
      home to many SIBs will naturally have a higher hurdle to obtain a “Compliant”
      grading versus a jurisdiction which only has small, non-complex deposit-taking
      institutions. Second, with this version of the Core Principles, jurisdictions can elect
      to be graded against essential criteria only or against both essential criteria and
      additional criteria. Third, assessments will inevitably be country-specific and time-
      dependent to varying degrees. Therefore, the description provided for each Core
      Principle and the qualitative commentary accompanying the grading for each

       Core Principle should be reviewed in order to gain an understanding of a
       jurisdiction’s approach to the specific aspect under consideration and the need
       for any improvements. Seeking to compare countries by a simple reference to the
       number of “Compliant” versus “Non-Compliant” grades they receive is unlikely to
       be informative.
 See BCP01.51 on grading definitions.


01.28 From a broader perspective, effective banking supervision is dependent on a
      number of external elements, or preconditions, which may not be within the
      direct jurisdiction of supervisors. Thus, in respect of grading, the assessment of
      preconditions will remain qualitative and distinct from the assessment (and
      grading) of compliance with the Core Principles.

01.29 Core Principle 29 dealing with the Abuse of Financial Services includes, among
      other things, supervision of banks’ anti-money laundering/combating the
      financing of terrorism (AML/CFT) controls. The Committee recognises that
      assessments against this Core Principle will inevitably, for some countries, involve
      a degree of duplication with the mutual evaluation process of the Financial Action
      Task Force (FATF). To address this, where an evaluation has recently been
      conducted by the FATF on a given country, FSAP assessors may rely on that
      evaluation and focus their own review on the actions taken by supervisors to
      address any shortcomings identified by the FATF. In the absence of any recent
      FATF evaluation, FSAP assessors will continue to assess countries’ supervision of
      banks’ AML/CFT controls.



Consistency with standards for other financial sectors
01.30 The banking sector is only a part, albeit an important part, of a financial system.
      The Committee has sought to maintain consistency, where possible, between
      these Core Principles and the corresponding standards for securities and
      insurance, as well as those for AML and transparency. Differences will, however,
      inevitably remain as key risk areas and supervisory priorities differ from sector to
      sector. In implementing the Core Principles, supervisors should take into account
      the role of the banking sector in supporting and facilitating productive activities
      for the real economy.


The Core Principles
01.31 The Core Principles are a framework of minimum standards for sound supervisory
      practices and are considered universally applicable. National authorities should
      apply the Core Principles in the supervision of banking organisations within their
      jurisdictions. The Committee issued the Core Principles as its contribution to
      strengthening the global financial system. Weaknesses in the banking system of a
      country, whether developing or developed, can threaten financial stability both
      within that country and internationally. The Committee believes that
      implementation of the Core Principles by all countries would be a significant step
      towards improving financial stability domestically and internationally, and provide
      a good basis for further development of effective supervisory systems. The vast
      majority of countries have endorsed the Core Principles and have implemented
      them.

 The Core Principles are conceived as a voluntary framework of
                   minimum standards for sound supervisory practices; national
                   authorities are free to put in place supplementary measures that they
                   deem necessary to achieve effective supervision in their jurisdictions.

In countries where non-bank financial institutions provide deposit and
                   lending services similar to those of banks, many of the Principles set
                   out in this document would also be appropriate to such non-bank
                   financial institutions. However, it is also acknowledged that some of
                   these categories of institutions may be regulated differently from banks
                   as long as they do not hold, collectively, a significant proportion of
                   deposits in a financial system.


01.32

        The Core Principles define 29 principles that are needed for a supervisory system
        to be effective. Those principles are broadly categorised into two groups:

        (1) Principles 1 to 13 focus on powers, responsibilities and functions of
            supervisors; while

        (2) Principles 14 to 29 focus on prudential regulations and requirements for
            banks.

01.33 The 29 Core Principles are:

        (1) Principle 1 – Responsibilities, objectives and powers: An effective system of
            banking supervision has clear responsibilities and objectives for each
            authority involved in the supervision of banks and banking groups. A
            suitable legal framework for banking supervision is in place to provide each
            responsible authority with the necessary legal powers to authorise banks,
            conduct ongoing supervision, address compliance with laws and undertake
            timely corrective actions to address safety and soundness concerns.

        (2) Principle 2 – Independence, accountability, resourcing and legal protection
            for supervisors: The supervisor possesses operational independence,
            transparent processes, sound governance, budgetary processes that do not
            undermine autonomy and adequate resources, and is accountable for the
            discharge of its duties and use of its resources. The legal framework for
            banking supervision includes legal protection for the supervisor.

        (3) Principle 3 – Cooperation and collaboration: Laws, regulations or other
            arrangements provide a framework for cooperation and collaboration with
            relevant domestic authorities and foreign supervisors. These arrangements
            reflect the need to protect confidential information.

        (4) Principle 4 – Permissible activities: The permissible activities of institutions
            that are licensed and subject to supervision as banks are clearly defined and
            the use of the word “bank” in names is controlled.



     (5) Principle 5 – Licensing criteria: The licensing authority has the power to set
         criteria and reject applications for establishments that do not meet the
         criteria. At a minimum, the licensing process consists of an assessment of the
         ownership structure and governance (including the fitness and propriety of
         Board members and senior management) of the bank and its wider group,
         and its strategic and operating plan, internal controls, risk management and
         projected financial condition (including capital base). Where the proposed
         owner or parent organisation is a foreign bank, the prior consent of its home
         supervisor is obtained.

     (6) Principle 6 – Transfer of significant ownership: The supervisor has the
         power to review, reject and impose prudential conditions on any proposals
         to transfer significant ownership or controlling interests held directly or
         indirectly in existing banks to other parties.

     (7) Principle 7 – Major acquisitions: The supervisor has the power to approve or
         reject (or recommend to the responsible authority the approval or rejection
         of), and impose prudential conditions on, major acquisitions or investments
         by a bank, against prescribed criteria, including the establishment of cross-
         border operations, and to determine that corporate affiliations or structures
         do not expose the bank to undue risks or hinder effective supervision.

     (8) Principle 8 – Supervisory approach: An effective system of banking
         supervision requires the supervisor to develop and maintain a forward-
         looking assessment of the risk profile of individual banks and banking
         groups, proportionate to their systemic importance; identify, assess and
         address risks emanating from banks and the banking system as a whole;
         have a framework in place for early intervention; and have plans in place, in
         partnership with other relevant authorities, to take action to resolve banks in
         an orderly manner if they become non-viable.

     (9) Principle 9 – Supervisory techniques and tools: The supervisor uses an
         appropriate range of techniques and tools to implement the supervisory
         approach and deploys supervisory resources on a proportionate basis, taking
         into account the risk profile and systemic importance of banks.

     (10) Principle 10 – Supervisory reporting: The supervisor collects, reviews and
          analyses prudential reports and statistical returns from banks on both a
          solo and a consolidated basis, and independently verifies these reports
          through either on-site examinations or use of external experts.




     (11) Principle 11 – Corrective and sanctioning powers of supervisors: The
          supervisor acts at an early stage to address unsafe and unsound practices
          or activities that could pose risks to banks or to the banking system. The


          supervisor has at its disposal an adequate range of supervisory tools to
          bring about timely corrective actions. This includes the ability to revoke the
          banking licence or to recommend its revocation.

     (12) Principle 12 – Consolidated supervision: An essential element of banking
          supervision is that the supervisor supervises the banking group on a
          consolidated basis, adequately monitoring and, as appropriate, applying
          prudential standards to all aspects of the business conducted by the
          banking group worldwide.

     (13) Principle 13 – Home-host relationships: Home and host supervisors of cross-
          border banking groups share information and cooperate for effective
          supervision of the group and group entities, and effective handling of crisis
          situations. Supervisors require the local operations of foreign banks to be
          conducted to the same standards as those required of domestic banks.

     (14) Principle 14 – Corporate governance: The supervisor determines that banks
          and banking groups have robust corporate governance policies and
          processes covering, for example, strategic direction, group and
          organisational structure, control environment, responsibilities of the banks’
          Boards and senior management, and compensation. These policies and
          processes are commensurate with the risk profile and systemic importance
          of the bank.

     (15) Principle 15 – Risk management process: The supervisor determines that
          banks have a comprehensive risk management process (including
          effective Board and senior management oversight) to identify, measure,
          evaluate, monitor, report and control or mitigate all material risks on a
          timely basis and to assess the adequacy of their capital and liquidity in
          relation to their risk profile and market and macroeconomic conditions. This
          extends to development and review of contingency arrangements
          (including robust and credible recovery plans where warranted) that take
          into account the specific circumstances of the bank. The risk management
          process is commensurate with the risk profile and systemic importance of
          the bank.
     (16) Principle 16 – Capital adequacy: The supervisor sets prudent and
          appropriate capital adequacy requirements for banks that reflect the risks
          undertaken by, and presented by, a bank in the context of the markets and
          macroeconomic conditions in which it operates. The supervisor defines the

           components of capital, bearing in mind their ability to absorb losses. At
           least for internationally active banks, capital requirements are not less than
           the applicable Basel standards.

     (17) Principle 17 – Credit risk: The supervisor determines that banks have an
          adequate credit risk management process that takes into account their risk
          appetite, risk profile and market and macroeconomic conditions. This
          includes prudent policies and processes to identify, measure, evaluate,
          monitor, report and control or mitigate credit risk (including counterparty
          credit risk) on a timely basis. The full credit lifecycle is covered including
          credit underwriting, credit evaluation, and the ongoing management of the
          bank’s loan and investment portfolios.

     (18) Principle 18 – Problem assets, provisions and reserves: The supervisor
          determines that banks have adequate policies and processes for the early
          identification and management of problem assets, and the maintenance of
          adequate provisions and reserves.

     (19) Principle 19 – Concentration risk and large exposure limits: The supervisor
          determines that banks have adequate policies and processes to identify,
          measure, evaluate, monitor, report and control or mitigate concentrations
          of risk on a timely basis. Supervisors set prudential limits to restrict bank
          exposures to single counterparties or groups of connected counterparties.

     (20) Principle 20 – Transactions with related parties: In order to prevent abuses
          arising in transactions with related parties and to address the risk of
          conflict of interest, the supervisor requires banks to enter into any
          transactions with related parties on an arm’s length basis; to monitor
          these transactions; to take appropriate steps to control or mitigate the risks;
          and to write off exposures to related parties in accordance with standard
          policies and processes.

     (21) Principle 21 – Country and transfer risks: The supervisor determines that
          banks have adequate policies and processes to identify, measure, evaluate,
          monitor, report and control or mitigate country risk and transfer risk in
          their international lending and investment activities on a timely basis.


     (22) Principle 22 – Market risks: The supervisor determines that banks have an
          adequate market risk management process that takes into account their
          risk appetite, risk profile, and market and macroeconomic conditions and
          the risk of a significant deterioration in market liquidity. This includes
          prudent policies and processes to identify, measure, evaluate, monitor,
          report and control or mitigate market risks on a timely basis.

     (23) Principle 23 – Interest rate risk in the banking book: The supervisor
          determines that banks have adequate systems to identify, measure,
          evaluate, monitor, report and control or mitigate interest rate risk in the
          banking book on a timely basis. These systems take into account the bank’s
          risk appetite, risk profile and market and macroeconomic conditions.

     (24) Principle 24 – Liquidity risk: The supervisor sets prudent and appropriate
          liquidity requirements (which can include either quantitative or qualitative
          requirements or both) for banks that reflect the liquidity needs of the bank.
          The supervisor determines that banks have a strategy that enables prudent
          management of liquidity risk and compliance with liquidity requirements.
          The strategy takes into account the bank’s risk profile as well as market and
          macroeconomic conditions and includes prudent policies and processes,
          consistent with the bank’s risk appetite, to identify, measure, evaluate,
          monitor, report and control or mitigate liquidity risk over an appropriate set
          of time horizons. At least for internationally active banks, liquidity
          requirements are not lower than the applicable Basel standards.

     (25) Principle 25 – Operational risk: The supervisor determines that banks have
          an adequate operational risk management framework that takes into
          account their risk appetite, risk profile and market and macroeconomic
          conditions. This includes prudent policies and processes to identify, assess,
          evaluate, monitor, report and control or mitigate operational risk on a
          timely basis.

     (26) Principle 26 – Internal control and audit: The supervisor determines that
          banks have adequate internal control frameworks to establish and maintain
          a properly controlled operating environment for the conduct of their
          business taking into account their risk profile. These include clear
          arrangements for delegating authority and responsibility; separation of the
          functions that involve committing the bank, paying away its funds, and
          accounting for its assets and liabilities; reconciliation of these processes;
          safeguarding the bank’s assets; and appropriate independent internal
          audit and compliance functions to test adherence to these controls as well
          as applicable laws and regulations.



     (27) Principle 27: Financial reporting and external audit: The supervisor
          determines that banks and banking groups maintain adequate and reliable

           records, prepare financial statements in accordance with accounting
           policies and practices that are widely accepted internationally and annually
           publish information that fairly reflects their financial condition and
           performance and bears an independent external auditor’s opinion. The
           supervisor also determines that banks and parent companies of banking
           groups have adequate governance and oversight of the external audit
           function.

     (28) Principle 28 – Disclosure and transparency: The supervisor determines that
          banks and banking groups regularly publish information on a consolidated
          and, where appropriate, solo basis that is easily accessible and fairly reflects
          their financial condition, performance, risk exposures, risk management
          strategies and corporate governance policies and processes.

     (29) Principle 29 – Abuse of financial services: The supervisor determines that
          banks have adequate policies and processes, including strict customer due
          diligence rules to promote high ethical and professional standards in the
          financial sector and prevent the bank from being used, intentionally or
          unintentionally, for criminal activities.
 In this standard, “banking group” includes the holding company, the
                 bank and its offices, subsidiaries, affiliates and joint ventures, both
                 domestic and foreign. Risks from other entities in the wider group, for
                 example non-bank (including non-financial) entities, may also be
                 relevant. This group-wide approach to supervision goes beyond
                 accounting consolidation.

 The activities of authorising banks, ongoing supervision and corrective
                 actions are elaborated in subsequent principles.

  Principle 3 is developed further in the Principles dealing with
                 “Consolidated supervision” (12), “Home-host relationships” (13) and
                 “Abuse of financial services” (29).

  This standard refers to a governance structure composed of a board
                 and senior management. The Committee recognises that there are
                 significant differences in the legislative and regulatory frameworks
                 across countries regarding these functions. Some countries use a two-
                 tier board structure, where the supervisory function of the board is
                 performed by a separate entity known as a supervisory board, which
                 has no executive functions. Other countries, in contrast, use a one-tier
                 board structure in which the board has a broader role. Owing to these
                 differences, this document does not advocate a specific board structure.
                 Consequently, in this document, the terms “board” and “senior
                 management” are only used as a way to refer to the oversight function
                 and the management function in general and should be interpreted
                 throughout the document in accordance with the applicable law within
                 each jurisdiction.

  While the term “supervisor” is used throughout Principle 6, the
                 Committee recognises that in a few countries these issues might be
                 addressed by a separate licensing authority.

   In the context of this Principle, “prudential reports and statistical
                 returns” are distinct from and in addition to required accounting
                 reports. The former are addressed by this Principle, and the latter are
                 addressed in Principle 27.

   Please refer to footnote 11.

 Please refer to footnote 14.

 For the purposes of assessing risk management by banks in the context
                 of Principles 15 to 25, a bank’s risk management framework should
               take an integrated “bank-wide” perspective of the bank’s risk exposure,
               encompassing the bank’s individual business lines and business units.
               Where a bank is a member of a group of companies, the risk
               management framework should in addition cover the risk exposure
               across and within the “banking group” (see footnote 11) and should
               also take account of risks posed to the bank or members of the
               banking group through other entities in the wider group.

  To some extent the precise requirements may vary from risk type to
               risk type (Principles 15 to 25) as reflected by the underlying reference
               documents.

   It should be noted that while, in this and other Principles, the
               supervisor is required to determine that banks’ risk management
               policies and processes are being adhered to, the responsibility for
               ensuring adherence remains with a bank’s Board and senior
               management.

     The Core Principles do not require a jurisdiction to comply with the
               capital adequacy regimes of Basel I, Basel II and/or Basel III. The
               Committee does not consider implementation of the Basel-based
               framework a prerequisite for compliance with the Core Principles, and
               compliance with one of the regimes is only required of those
               jurisdictions that have declared that they have voluntarily
               implemented it.

  Principle 17 covers the evaluation of assets in greater detail; Principle
               18 covers the management of problem assets.

 Credit risk may result from the following: on-balance sheet and off-
               balance sheet exposures, including loans and advances, investments,
               inter-bank lending, derivative transactions, securities financing
               transactions and trading activities.

 Counterparty credit risk includes credit risk exposures arising from
               derivative contracts and other financial instruments.

   Principle 17 covers the evaluation of assets in greater detail; Principle
               18 covers the management of problem assets.

   Reserves for the purposes of this Principle are “below the line” non-
               distributable appropriations of profit required by a supervisor in
               addition to provisions (“above the line” charges to profit).

 

               Connected counterparties may include natural persons as well as a
               group of companies related financially or by common ownership,
               management or any combination thereof.


 Related parties can include, among other things, the bank’s
               subsidiaries, affiliates, and any party (including their subsidiaries,
               affiliates and special purpose entities) that the bank exerts control over
               or that exerts control over the bank, the bank’s major shareholders,
               Board members, senior management and key staff, their direct and
               related interests, and their close family members as well as
               corresponding persons in affiliated companies.

 Related party transactions include on-balance sheet and off-balance
               sheet credit exposures and claims, as well as, dealings such as service
               contracts, asset purchases and sales, construction contracts, lease
               agreements, derivative transactions, borrowings, and write-offs. The
               term transaction should be interpreted broadly to incorporate not only
               transactions that are entered into with related parties but also
               situations in which an unrelated party (with whom a bank has an
               existing exposure) subsequently becomes a related party.

Country risk is the risk of exposure to loss caused by events in a foreign
               country. The concept is broader than sovereign risk as all forms of
               lending or investment activity whether to/with individuals, corporates,
               banks or governments are covered.

  Transfer risk is the risk that a borrower will not be able to convert local
               currency into foreign exchange and so will be unable to make debt
               service payments in foreign currency. The risk normally arises from
               exchange restrictions imposed by the government in the borrower’s
               country. (Reference document: IMF paper on External Debt Statistics –
               Guide for compilers and users, 2003.)

  Wherever “interest rate risk” is used in this Principle the term refers to
               interest rate risk in the banking book. Interest rate risk in the trading
               book is covered under Principle 22.

  The Committee has defined operational risk as the risk of loss resulting
               from inadequate or failed internal processes, people and systems or
               from external events. The definition includes legal risk but excludes
               strategic and reputational risk.

  In assessing independence, supervisors give due regard to the control
               systems designed to avoid conflicts of interest in the performance

   measurement of staff in the compliance, control and internal audit
                   functions. For example, the remuneration of such staff should be
                   determined independently of the business lines that they oversee.

    The Committee is aware that, in some jurisdictions, other authorities,
                   such as a financial intelligence unit, rather than a banking supervisor,
                   may have primary responsibility for assessing compliance with laws
                   and regulations regarding criminal activities in banks, such as fraud,
                   money laundering and the financing of terrorism. Thus, in the context
                   of this Principle, “the supervisor” might refer to such other authorities,
                   in particular in Essential Criteria 7, 8 and 10. In such jurisdictions, the
                   banking supervisor cooperates with such authorities to achieve
                   adherence with the criteria mentioned in this Principle.


01.34 The Core Principles are neutral with regard to different approaches to
      supervision, so long as the overriding goals are achieved. They are not designed
      to cover all the needs and circumstances of every banking system. Instead,
      specific country circumstances should be more appropriately considered in the
      context of the assessments and in the dialogue between assessors and country
      authorities.

01.35 A high degree of compliance with the Core Principles should foster overall
      financial system stability; however, this will not guarantee it, nor will it prevent the
      failure of banks. Banking supervision cannot, and should not, provide an
      assurance that banks will not fail. In a market economy, failures are part of risk-
      taking.

01.36 The Committee stands ready to encourage work at the national level to
      implement the Core Principles in conjunction with other supervisory bodies and
      interested parties. The Committee invites the international financial institutions
      and donor agencies to use the Core Principles in assisting individual countries to
      strengthen their supervisory arrangements. The Committee will continue to
      collaborate closely with the IMF and the World Bank in their monitoring of the
      implementation of the Committee’s prudential standards. The Committee also
      remains committed to further enhancing its interaction with supervisors from
      non-member countries.




Preconditions for effective banking supervision
01.37 An effective system of banking supervision needs to be able to effectively
      develop, implement, monitor and enforce supervisory policies under normal and
      stressed economic and financial conditions. Supervisors need to be able to
      respond to external conditions that can negatively affect banks or the banking
      system. There are a number of elements or preconditions that have a direct
      impact on the effectiveness of supervision in practice. These preconditions are
      mostly outside the direct or sole jurisdiction of banking supervisors. Where
      supervisors have concerns that the preconditions could impact the efficiency or
      effectiveness of regulation and supervision of banks, supervisors should make the
      government and relevant authorities aware of them and their actual or potential
      negative repercussions for supervisory objectives. Supervisors should work with
      the government and relevant authorities to address concerns that are outside the
      direct or sole jurisdiction of the supervisors. Supervisors should also, as part of
      their normal business, adopt measures to address the effects of such concerns on
      the efficiency or effectiveness of regulation and supervision of banks.

01.38 The preconditions include:

       (1) sound and sustainable macroeconomic policies;

       (2) a well established framework for financial stability policy formulation;

       (3) a well developed public infrastructure;

       (4) a clear framework for crisis management, recovery and resolution;

       (5) an appropriate level of systemic protection (or public safety net); and

       (6) effective market discipline.

01.39 Sound macroeconomic policies (mainly fiscal and monetary policies) are the
      foundation of a stable financial system. Without sound policies, imbalances such
      as high government borrowing and spending, and an excessive shortage or
      supply of liquidity, may arise and affect the stability of the financial system.
      Further, certain government policies may specifically use banks and other
      financial intermediaries as instruments, which may inhibit effective supervision.


Examples of such policies include accumulation of large quantities of
                  government securities; reduced access to capital markets due to
                  government controls or growing imbalances; degradation in asset
                  quality after loose monetary policies; and government-directed lending
                  or forbearance requirements as an economic policy response to
                  deteriorating economic conditions.


01.40 In view of the impact and interplay between the real economy and banks and the
      financial system, it is important that there exists a clear framework for
      macroprudential surveillance and financial stability policy formulation. Such a
      framework should set out the authorities or those responsible for identifying
      systemic and emerging risks in the financial system, monitoring and analysing
      market and other financial and economic factors that may lead to accumulation
      of systemic risks, formulating and implementing appropriate policies, and
      assessing how such policies may affect the banks and the financial system. It
      should also include mechanisms for effective cooperation and coordination
      among the relevant agencies.

01.41 A well developed public infrastructure needs to comprise the following elements,
      which, if not adequately provided, can contribute to the weakening of financial
      systems and markets, or frustrate their improvement:

      (1) a system of business laws, including corporate, bankruptcy, contract,
          consumer protection and private property laws, which is consistently
          enforced and provides a mechanism for the fair resolution of disputes;

      (2) an efficient and independent judiciary;

      (3) comprehensive and well defined accounting principles and rules that are
          widely accepted internationally;

      (4) a system of independent external audits, to ensure that users of financial
          statements, including banks, have independent assurance that the accounts
          provide a true and fair view of the financial position of the company and are
          prepared according to established accounting principles, with auditors held
          accountable for their work;

      (5) availability of competent, independent and experienced professionals (eg
          accountants, auditors and lawyers), whose work complies with transparent
          technical and ethical standards set and enforced by official or professional
          bodies consistent with international standards, and who are subject to
          appropriate oversight;

       (6) well defined rules governing, and adequate supervision of, other financial
           markets and, where appropriate, their participants;

       (7) secure, efficient and well regulated payment and clearing systems (including
           central counterparties) for the settlement of financial transactions where
           counterparty risks are effectively controlled and managed;

       (8) efficient and effective credit bureaus that make available credit information
           on borrowers and/or databases that assist in the assessment of risks; and

       (9) public availability of basic economic, financial and social statistics.

01.42 Effective crisis management frameworks and resolution regimes help to minimise
      potential disruptions to financial stability arising from banks and financial
      institutions that are in distress or failing. A sound institutional framework for crisis
      management and resolution requires a clear mandate and an effective legal
      underpinning for each relevant authority (such as banking supervisors, national
      resolution authorities, finance ministries and central banks). The relevant
      authorities should have a broad range of powers and appropriate tools provided
      in law to resolve a financial institution that is no longer viable and where there is
      no reasonable prospect of it becoming viable. There should also be agreement
      among the relevant authorities on their individual and joint responsibilities for
      crisis management and resolution, and how they will discharge these
      responsibilities in a coordinated manner. This should include the ability to share
      confidential information among one another to facilitate planning in advance to
      handle recovery and resolution situations and to manage such events when they
      occur.

01.43 Deciding on the appropriate level of systemic protection is a policy question to
      be addressed by the relevant authorities, including the government and central
      bank, particularly where it may result in a commitment of public funds.
      Supervisors will have an important role to play because of their in-depth
      knowledge of the financial institutions involved. In handling systemic issues, it is
      necessary to balance several factors: addressing the risks to confidence in the
      financial system and contagion to otherwise sound institutions and, minimising
      the distortion to market signals and discipline. A key element of the framework
      for systemic protection is a system of deposit insurance. Provided such a system
      is transparent and carefully designed, it can contribute to public confidence in the
      system and thus limit contagion from banks in distress.


01.44 Effective market discipline depends, in part, on adequate flows of information to
      market participants, appropriate financial incentives to reward well managed
      institutions, and arrangements that ensure that investors are not insulated from
      the consequences of their decisions. Among the issues to be addressed are

       corporate governance and ensuring that accurate, meaningful, transparent and
       timely information is provided by borrowers to investors and creditors. Market
       signals can be distorted and discipline undermined if governments seek to
       influence or override commercial decisions, particularly lending decisions, to
       achieve public policy objectives. In these circumstances, it is important that, if
       governments or their related entities provide or guarantee the lending, such
       arrangements are disclosed and there is a formal process for compensating
       financial institutions when such loans cease to perform.


Assessment methodology
01.45 The Core Principles are mainly intended to help countries assess the quality of
      their systems and to provide input into their reform agenda. An assessment of
      the current situation of a country’s compliance with the Core Principles can be
      considered a useful tool in a country’s implementation of an effective system of
      banking supervision. In order to achieve objectivity and comparability of
      compliance with the Core Principles in the different country assessments,
      supervisors and assessors should refer to this assessment methodology, which
      does not eliminate the need for both parties to use their judgment in assessing
      compliance. Such an assessment should identify weaknesses in the existing
      system of supervision and regulation, and form a basis for remedial measures by
      government authorities and banking supervisors.


 The aim of assessments is, however, not for ranking supervisory
                   systems. Please refer to BCP01.27.


01.46 Although Committee members individually collaborate in assessment missions,
      these are conducted primarily by the IMF and the World Bank. The Committee
      has decided not to make assessments of its own to maintain the current division
      of labour between the Committee’s standard-setting and the international
      financial institutions’ assessment functions. However, the Committee, together
      with the Financial Stability Institute, is prepared to assist in other ways, for
      example by providing training.


Use of the methodology


01.47 The methodology can be used in multiple contexts:

       (1) self-assessments performed by banking supervisors themselves;

       (2) IMF and World Bank assessments of the quality of supervisory systems, for
           example in the context of FSAP;

       (3) reviews conducted by private third parties such as consulting firms; or

       (4) peer reviews conducted, for instance, within regional groupings of banking
           supervisors.


 The Committee has issued guidelines for performing self-assessments:
                   Conducting a supervisory self-assessment – practical application, Basel,
                   April 2001.

 The regular reports by the IMF and the World Bank on the lessons
                   drawn from assessment experiences as part of FSAP exercises
                   constitute a useful source of information which has been used as an
                   input to improve the Principles.


01.48 Whatever the context, the following factors are crucial:

       (1) In order to achieve full objectivity, compliance with the Core Principles is
           best assessed by suitably qualified external parties consisting of two
           individuals with strong supervisory backgrounds who bring varied
           perspectives so as to provide checks and balances; however, experience has
           shown that a recent self-assessment is a highly useful input to an outside
           party assessment.

       (2) A fair assessment of the banking supervisory process cannot be performed
           without the genuine cooperation of all relevant authorities.

       (3) The process of assessing each of the 29 Core Principles requires a
           judgmental weighing of numerous elements that only qualified assessors
           with practical, relevant experience can provide.

       (4) The assessment requires some legal and accounting expertise in the
           interpretation of compliance with the Core Principles; these legal and
           accounting interpretations must be in relation to the legislative and
           accounting structure of the relevant country. They may also require the
           advice of additional legal and accounting experts, which can be sought
           subsequent to the on-site assessment.

       (5) The assessment must be comprehensive and in sufficient depth to allow a
           judgment on whether criteria are fulfilled in practice, not just in theory. Laws
           and regulations need to be sufficient in scope and depth, and be effectively
           enforced and complied with. Their existence alone does not provide enough
           indication that the criteria are met.


Assessment of compliance

01.49 The primary objective of an assessment should be the identification of the nature
      and extent of any weaknesses in the banking supervisory system and compliance
      with individual Core Principles. While the process of implementing the Core
      Principles starts with the assessment of compliance, assessment is a means to an
      end, not an objective in itself. Instead, the assessment will allow the supervisory
      authority (and in some instances the government) to initiate a strategy to
      improve the banking supervisory system, as necessary.

01.50 To assess compliance with a Principle, this methodology proposes a set of
      essential and additional assessment criteria for each Principle. By default, for the
      purposes of grading, the essential criteria are the only elements on which to
      gauge full compliance with a Core Principle. The additional criteria are suggested
      best practices that countries having advanced banks should aim for. Countries
      have the following three assessment options:

       (1) Unless the country explicitly opts for any other option, compliance with the
           Core Principles will be assessed and graded only with reference to the
           essential criteria;

       (2) A country may voluntarily choose to be assessed against the additional
           criteria, in order to identify areas in which it could enhance its regulation and
           supervision further and benefit from assessors’ commentary on how it could
           be achieved. However, compliance with the Core Principles will still be
           graded only with reference to the essential criteria; or

       (3) To accommodate countries that further seek to attain best supervisory
           practices, a country may voluntarily choose to be assessed and graded
           against the additional criteria, in addition to the essential criteria.
01.51

        For assessments of the Core Principles by external parties, the following four-
        grade scale will be used. A “not applicable” grading can be used under certain
        circumstances as described in BCP01.52.

        (1) Compliant – A country will be considered compliant with a Principle when all
            essential criteria  applicable for this country are met without any significant
            deficiencies. There may be instances, of course, where a country can
            demonstrate that the Principle has been achieved by other means.
            Conversely, due to the specific conditions in individual countries, the
            essential criteria may not always be sufficient to achieve the objective of the
            Principle, and therefore other measures may also be needed in order for the
            aspect of banking supervision addressed by the Principle to be considered
            effective.

        (2) Largely compliant – A country will be considered largely compliant with a
            Principle whenever only minor shortcomings are observed that do not raise
            any concerns about the authority’s ability and clear intent to achieve full
            compliance with the Principle within a prescribed period of time. The
            assessment “largely compliant” can be used when the system does not meet
            all essential criteria, but the overall effectiveness is sufficiently good, and no
            material risks are left unaddressed.

        (3) Materially non-compliant – A country will be considered materially non-
            compliant with a Principle whenever there are severe shortcomings, despite
            the existence of formal rules, regulations and procedures, and there is
            evidence that supervision has clearly not been effective, that practical
            implementation is weak, or that the shortcomings are sufficient to raise
            doubts about the authority’s ability to achieve compliance. It is
            acknowledged that the “gap” between “largely compliant” and “materially
            non-compliant” is wide, and that the choice may be difficult. On the other
            hand, the intention has been to force the assessors to make a clear
            statement.

        (4) Non-compliant – A country will be considered non-compliant with a
            Principle whenever there has been no substantive implementation of the
            Principle, several essential criteria are not complied with or supervision is
            manifestly ineffective.


     While gradings of self-assessments may provide useful information to
                   the authorities, these are not mandatory as the assessors will arrive at
                   their own independent judgment.

 For the purpose of grading, references to the term “essential criteria” in
                   this paragraph would include additional criteria in the case of a
                   country that has volunteered to be assessed and graded against the
                   additional criteria.


01.52 In addition, a Principle will be considered “not applicable” when, in the view of
      the assessor, the Principle does not apply given the structural, legal and
      institutional features of a country. In some instances countries have argued that
      in the case of certain embryonic or immaterial banking activities, which were not
      being supervised, an assessment of “not applicable” should have been given,
      rather than “non-compliant”. This is an issue for judgment by the assessor,
      although activities that are relatively insignificant at the time of assessment may
      later assume greater importance and authorities need to be aware of, and
      prepared for, such developments. The supervisory system should permit such
      activities to be monitored, even if no regulation or supervision is considered
      immediately necessary. “Not applicable” would be an appropriate assessment if
      the supervisors are aware of the phenomenon, and would be capable of taking
      action, but there is realistically no chance that the activities will grow sufficiently
      in volume to pose a risk.

01.53 Grading is not an exact science and the Core Principles can be met in different
      ways. The assessment criteria should not be seen as a checklist approach to
      compliance but as a qualitative exercise. Compliance with some criteria may be
      more critical for effectiveness of supervision, depending on the situation and
      circumstances in a given jurisdiction. Hence, the number of criteria complied with
      is not always an indication of the overall compliance rating for any given
      Principle. Emphasis should be placed on the commentary that should accompany
      each Principle grading, rather than on the grading itself. The primary goal of the
      exercise is not to apply a “grade” but rather to focus authorities on areas needing
      attention in order to set the stage for improvements and develop an action plan
      that prioritises the improvements needed to achieve full compliance with the
      Core Principles.

01.54 The assessment should also include the assessors’ opinion on how weaknesses in
      the preconditions for effective banking supervision, as discussed in BCP01.37 to
      BCP01.44, hinder effective supervision and how effectively supervisory measures
      mitigate these weaknesses. In particular, the assessment of compliance with
      individual Core Principles should mention clearly how it is likely to be primarily
      affected by preconditions that are considered to be weak. This opinion should be
       qualitative rather than providing any kind of graded assessment. To the extent
       shortcomings in preconditions are material to the effectiveness of supervision,
       they may affect the grading of the affected Core Principles.

01.55 The Core Principles are minimum standards to be applied by all banking
      supervisors. In implementing some of them, supervisors will need to take into
      account the risk profile and systemic importance of individual banks, particularly
      for those Core Principles where supervisors have to determine the adequacy of
      banks' risk management policies and processes.


Practical considerations in conducting an assessment

01.56 While the Committee does not have a specific role in setting out detailed
      guidelines on the preparation and presentation of assessment reports, it believes
      there are a few considerations that assessors should take into account when
      conducting an assessment and preparing the assessment report. By way of
      example, BCP01.135 to BCP01.155 includes the format developed by the IMF and
      the World Bank for conducting their own assessments of the state of
      implementation of the Core Principles in individual countries. This section also
      includes structured guidance to the assessors on how to form an opinion on the
      preconditions for effective banking supervision, how weaknesses in these external
      elements may hinder supervision, as mentioned in BCP01.54 and how effective
      supervisory measures can mitigate shortcomings in the preconditions for
      effective banking supervision.




01.57 First, when conducting an assessment, the assessor must have free access to a
      range of information and interested parties. The required information may
      include not only published information, such as the relevant laws, regulations and
      policies, but also more sensitive information, such as any self-assessments,
      operational guidelines for supervisors and, where possible, supervisory
      assessments of individual banks. This information should be provided as long as
      it does not violate legal requirements for supervisors to hold such information
      confidential. Experience from assessments has shown that secrecy issues can
      often be solved through ad hoc arrangements between the assessor and the
      assessed authority. The assessor will need to meet with a range of individuals and
      organisations, including the banking supervisory authority or authorities, other
      domestic supervisory authorities, any relevant government ministries, bankers
      and bankers’ associations, auditors and other financial sector participants. Special
       note should be made of instances when any required information is not provided,
       as well as of what impact this might have on the accuracy of the assessment.

01.58 Second, the assessment of compliance with each Core Principle requires the
      evaluation of a chain of related requirements which, depending on the Principle,
      may encompass law, prudential regulation, supervisory guidelines, on-site
      examinations and off-site analysis, supervisory reporting and public disclosures,
      and evidence of enforcement or non-enforcement. Further, the assessment must
      ensure that the requirements are put into practice. This also requires assessing
      whether the supervisory authority has the necessary operational autonomy, skills,
      resources and commitment to implement the Core Principles.

01.59 Third, assessments should not focus solely on deficiencies but should also
      highlight specific achievements. This approach will provide a better picture of the
      effectiveness of banking supervision.

01.60 Fourth, there are certain jurisdictions where non-bank financial institutions that
      are not part of a supervised banking group engage in some bank-like activities;
      these institutions may make up a significant portion of the total financial system
      and may be largely unsupervised. Since the Core Principles deal specifically with
      banking supervision, they cannot be used for formal assessments of these non-
      bank financial institutions. However, the assessment report should, at a minimum,
      mention those activities where non-banks have an impact on the supervised
      banks and the potential problems that may arise as a result of non-bank activities.


01.61 Fifth, the development of cross-border banking leads to increased complications
      when conducting Core Principles assessments. Improved cooperation and
      information sharing between home and host country supervisors is of central
      importance, both in normal times and in crisis situations. The assessor must
      therefore determine that such cooperation and information sharing actually takes
      place to the extent needed, bearing in mind the size and complexity of the
      banking links between the two countries.


Criteria for assessing compliance with the Core Principles
01.62 This section lists the assessment criteria for each of the 29 Core Principles under
      two separate headings: “essential criteria” and “additional criteria”. As mentioned
      in BCP01.50, essential criteria are those elements that should be present in order
      to demonstrate compliance with a Principle. Additional criteria may be
      particularly relevant to the supervision of more sophisticated banking
      organisations, and countries with such institutions should aim to achieve them.
      By and large, the compliance grading will be based on the essential criteria; the
      assessor will comment on, but not grade, compliance with the additional criteria
      unless the country undergoing the assessment has voluntarily chosen to be
      graded against the additional criteria too.

01.63 The individual assessment criteria are based on sound supervisory practices
      already established, even if they are not yet fully implemented. Where
      appropriate, the documents on which the criteria are founded have been cited.


Principle 1 – Responsibilities, objectives and powers

01.64 Principle 1: an effective system of banking supervision has clear responsibilities
      and objectives for each authority involved in the supervision of banks and
      banking groups. A suitable legal framework for banking supervision is in place to
      provide each responsible authority with the necessary legal powers to authorise
      banks, conduct ongoing supervision, address compliance with laws and
      undertake timely corrective actions to address safety and soundness concerns.

01.65 Essential criteria:

       (1) The responsibilities and objectives of each of the authorities involved in
           banking supervision are clearly defined in legislation and publicly
           disclosed. Where more than one authority is responsible for supervising the
           banking system, a credible and publicly available framework is in place to
           avoid regulatory and supervisory gaps.
     (2) The primary objective of banking supervision is to promote the safety and
         soundness of banks and the banking system. If the banking supervisor is

         assigned broader responsibilities, these are subordinate to the primary
         objective and do not conflict with it.

     (3) Laws and regulations provide a framework for the supervisor to set and
         enforce minimum prudential standards for banks and banking groups. The
         supervisor has the power to increase the prudential requirements for
         individual banks and banking groups based on their risk profile and
         systemic importance.

     (4) Banking laws, regulations and prudential standards are updated as necessary
         to ensure that they remain effective and relevant to changing industry and
         regulatory practices. These are subject to public consultation, as appropriate.

     (5) The supervisor has the power to:

         (a) have full access to banks’ and banking groups’ Boards, management,
             staff and records in order to review compliance with internal rules and
             limits as well as external laws and regulations;

         (b) review the overall activities of a banking group, both domestic and
             cross-border; and

         (c)   supervise the foreign activities of banks incorporated in its jurisdiction.

     (6) When, in a supervisor’s judgment, a bank is not complying with laws or
         regulations, or it is or is likely to be engaging in unsafe or unsound practices
         or actions that have the potential to jeopardise the bank or the banking
         system, the supervisor has the power to:

         (a) take (and/or require a bank to take) timely corrective action;

         (b) impose a range of sanctions;

         (c)   revoke the bank’s licence; and

         (d) cooperate and collaborate with relevant authorities to achieve an
             orderly resolution of the bank, including triggering resolution where
             appropriate

     (7) The supervisor has the power to review the activities of parent companies
         and of companies affiliated with parent companies to determine their impact
         on the safety and soundness of the bank and the banking group.



    Such authority is called “the supervisor” throughout this chapter, except
                   where the longer form “the banking supervisor” has been necessary for
                   clarification.

      In this chapter, “risk profile” refers to the nature and scale of the risk
                   exposures undertaken by a bank.

       In this chapter, “systemic importance” is determined by the size,
                   interconnectedness, substitutability, global or cross-jurisdictional
                   activity (if any), and complexity of the bank, as set out in SCO40.



Principle 2 – Independence, accountability, resourcing and legal protection for
supervisors

01.66 Principle 2: the supervisor possesses operational independence, transparent
      processes, sound governance, budgetary processes that do not undermine
      autonomy and adequate resources, and is accountable for the discharge of its
      duties and use of its resources. The legal framework for banking supervision
      includes legal protection for the supervisor.

01.67 Essential criteria:

       (1) The operational independence, accountability and governance of the
           supervisor are prescribed in legislation and publicly disclosed. There is no
           government or industry interference that compromises the operational
           independence of the supervisor. The supervisor has full discretion to take
           any supervisory actions or decisions on banks and banking groups under its
           supervision.

       (2) The process for the appointment and removal of the head(s) of the
           supervisory authority and members of its governing body is transparent. The
           head(s) of the supervisory authority is (are) appointed for a minimum term
           and is removed from office during his/her term only for reasons specified in
           law or if (s)he is not physically or mentally capable of carrying out the role or
           has been found guilty of misconduct. The reason(s) for removal is publicly
           disclosed.

       (3) The supervisor publishes its objectives and is accountable through a
           transparent framework for the discharge of its duties in relation to those
           objectives.





     (4) The supervisor has effective internal governance and communication
         processes that enable supervisory decisions to be taken at a level
         appropriate to the significance of the issue and timely decisions to be taken
         in the case of an emergency. The governing body is structured to avoid any
         real or perceived conflicts of interest.

     (5) The supervisor and its staff have credibility based on their professionalism
         and integrity. There are rules on how to avoid conflicts of interest and on the
         appropriate use of information obtained through work, with sanctions in
         place if these are not followed.

     (6) The supervisor has adequate resources for the conduct of effective
         supervision and oversight. It is financed in a manner that does not
         undermine its autonomy or operational independence. This includes:

         (a) a budget that provides for staff in sufficient numbers and with skills
             commensurate with the risk profile and systemic importance of the
             banks and banking groups supervised;

         (b) salary scales that allow it to attract and retain qualified staff;

         (c)   the ability to commission external experts with the necessary
               professional skills and independence, and subject to necessary
               confidentiality restrictions to conduct supervisory tasks;

         (d) a budget and programme for the regular training of staff;

         (e) a technology budget sufficient to equip its staff with the tools needed
             to supervise the banking industry and assess individual banks and
             banking groups; and

         (f)   a travel budget that allows appropriate on-site work, effective cross-
               border cooperation and participation in domestic and international
               meetings of significant relevance (eg supervisory colleges).

     (7) As part of their annual resource planning exercise, supervisors regularly take
         stock of existing skills and projected requirements over the short- and
         medium-term, taking into account relevant emerging supervisory practices.
         Supervisors review and implement measures to bridge any gaps in numbers
         and/or skill-sets identified.

     (8) In determining supervisory programmes and allocating resources,
         supervisors take into account the risk profile and systemic importance of
         individual banks and banking groups, and the different mitigation
         approaches available.




       (9) Laws provide protection to the supervisor and its staff against lawsuits for
           actions taken and/or omissions made while discharging their duties in good
           faith. The supervisor and its staff are adequately protected against the costs
           of defending their actions and/or omissions made while discharging their
           duties in good faith.


       Footnotes
       46          Please refer to Principle 1, Essential Criterion 1 BCP01.65.



Principle 3 – Cooperation and collaboration

01.68 Principle 3: laws, regulations or other arrangements provide a framework for
      cooperation and collaboration with relevant domestic authorities and foreign
      supervisors. These arrangements reflect the need to protect confidential
      information.

01.69 Essential criteria:

       (1) Arrangements, formal or informal, are in place for cooperation, including
           analysis and sharing of information, and undertaking collaborative work, with
           all domestic authorities with responsibility for the safety and soundness of
           banks, other financial institutions and/or the stability of the financial system.
           There is evidence that these arrangements work in practice, where necessary.

       (2) Arrangements, formal or informal, are in place for cooperation, including
           analysis and sharing of information, and undertaking collaborative work, with
           relevant foreign supervisors of banks and banking groups. There is evidence
           that these arrangements work in practice, where necessary.

       (3) The supervisor may provide confidential information to another domestic
           authority or foreign supervisor but must take reasonable steps to determine
           that any confidential information so released will be used only for bank-
           specific or system-wide supervisory purposes and will be treated as
           confidential by the receiving party.




       (4) The supervisor receiving confidential information from other supervisors
           uses the confidential information for bank-specific or system-wide
           supervisory purposes only. The supervisor does not disclose confidential
           information received to third parties without the permission of the
           supervisor providing the information and is able to deny any demand (other
           than a court order or mandate from a legislative body) for confidential
           information in its possession. In the event that the supervisor is legally
            compelled to disclose confidential information it has received from another
            supervisor, the supervisor promptly notifies the originating supervisor,
            indicating what information it is compelled to release and the circumstances
            surrounding the release. Where consent to passing on confidential
            information is not given, the supervisor uses all reasonable means to resist
            such a demand or protect the confidentiality of the information.

       (5) Processes are in place for the supervisor to support resolution authorities (eg
           central banks and finance ministries as appropriate) to undertake recovery
           and resolution planning and actions.


Principle 4 – Permissible activities

01.70 Principle 4: the permissible activities of institutions that are licensed and subject
      to supervision as banks are clearly defined and the use of the word “bank” in
      names is controlled.

01.71 Essential criteria:

       (1) The term “bank” is clearly defined in laws or regulations.

       (2) The permissible activities of institutions that are licensed and subject to
           supervision as banks are clearly defined either by supervisors, or in laws or
           regulations.

       (3) The use of the word “bank” and any derivations such as “banking” in a name,
           including domain names, is limited to licensed and supervised institutions in
           all circumstances where the general public might otherwise be misled.

       (4) The taking of deposits from the public is reserved for institutions that are
           licensed and subject to supervision as banks.

       (5) The supervisor or licensing authority publishes or otherwise makes available
           a current list of licensed banks, including branches of foreign banks,
           operating within its jurisdiction in a way that is easily accessible to the public.


 The Committee recognises the presence in some countries of non-
                   banking financial institutions that take deposits but may be regulated
                   differently from banks. These institutions should be subject to a form of
                   regulation commensurate to the type and size of their business and,
                   collectively, should not hold a significant proportion of deposits in the
                   financial system.



Principle 5 – Licensing criteria

01.72 Principle 5: the licensing authority has the power to set criteria and reject
      applications for establishments that do not meet the criteria. At a minimum, the
      licensing process consists of an assessment of the ownership structure and
      governance (including the fitness and propriety of Board members and senior
      management) of the bank and its wider group, and its strategic and operating
      plan, internal controls, risk management and projected financial condition
      (including capital base). Where the proposed owner or parent organisation is a
      foreign bank, the prior consent of its home supervisor is obtained.

01.73 Essential criteria:

       (1) The law identifies the authority responsible for granting and withdrawing a
           banking licence. The licensing authority could be the banking supervisor or
           another competent authority. If the licensing authority and the supervisor
           are not the same, the supervisor has the right to have its views on each
           application considered, and its concerns addressed. In addition, the licensing
           authority provides the supervisor with any information that may be material
           to the supervision of the licensed bank. The supervisor imposes prudential
           conditions or limitations on the newly licensed bank, where appropriate.

       (2) Laws or regulations give the licensing authority the power to set criteria for
           licensing banks. If the criteria are not fulfilled or if the information provided
           is inadequate, the licensing authority has the power to reject an application.
           If the licensing authority or supervisor determines that the licence was based
           on false information, the licence can be revoked.

       (3) The criteria for issuing licences are consistent with those applied in ongoing
           supervision.



     (4) The licensing authority determines that the proposed legal, managerial,
         operational and ownership structures of the bank and its wider group will
         not hinder effective supervision on both a solo and a consolidated basis.



         The licensing authority also determines, where appropriate, that these
         structures will not hinder effective implementation of corrective measures in
         the future.

     (5) The licensing authority identifies and determines the suitability of the bank’s
         major shareholders, including the ultimate beneficial owners, and others that
         may exert significant influence. It also assesses the transparency of the
         ownership structure, the sources of initial capital and the ability of
         shareholders to provide additional financial support, where needed.

     (6) A minimum initial capital amount is stipulated for all banks.

     (7) The licensing authority, at authorisation, evaluates the bank’s proposed
         Board members and senior management as to expertise and integrity (fit and
         proper test), and any potential for conflicts of interest. The fit and proper
         criteria include: skills and experience in relevant financial operations
         commensurate with the intended activities of the bank; and no record of
         criminal activities or adverse regulatory judgments that make a person unfit
         to uphold important positions in a bank. The licensing authority
         determines whether the bank’s Board has collective sound knowledge of the
         material activities the bank intends to pursue, and the associated risks.

     (8) The licensing authority reviews the proposed strategic and operating plans
         of the bank. This includes determining that an appropriate system of
         corporate governance, risk management and internal controls, including
         those related to the detection and prevention of criminal activities, as well as
         the oversight of proposed outsourced functions, will be in place. The
         operational structure is required to reflect the scope and degree of
         sophistication of the proposed activities of the bank.

     (9) The licensing authority reviews pro forma financial statements and
         projections of the proposed bank. This includes an assessment of the
         adequacy of the financial strength to support the proposed strategic plan as
         well as financial information on the principal shareholders of the bank.



       (10) In the case of foreign banks establishing a branch or subsidiary, before
            issuing a licence, the host supervisor establishes that no objection (or a
            statement of no objection) from the home supervisor has been received.




             For cross-border banking operations in its country, the host supervisor
             determines whether the home supervisor practices global consolidated
             supervision.

       (11) The licensing authority or supervisor has policies and processes to monitor
            the progress of new entrants in meeting their business and strategic goals,
            and to determine that supervisory requirements outlined in the licence
            approval are being met.


      Therefore, shell banks shall not be licensed. (Reference document: BCBS
                   paper on shell banks, January 2003.)

Please refer to Principle 14, Essential Criterion 8 BCP01.95.

   Please refer to Principle 29 BCP01.33(29).



Principle 6 – Transfer of significant ownership

01.74 Principle 6: the supervisor has the power to review, reject and impose prudential
      conditions on any proposals to transfer significant ownership or controlling
      interests held directly or indirectly in existing banks to other parties.

01.75 Essential criteria:

       (1) Laws or regulations contain clear definitions of “significant ownership” and
           “controlling interest”.

       (2) There are requirements to obtain supervisory approval or provide immediate
           notification of proposed changes that would result in a change in ownership,
           including beneficial ownership, or the exercise of voting rights over a
           particular threshold or change in controlling interest.

       (3) The supervisor has the power to reject any proposal for a change in
           significant ownership, including beneficial ownership, or controlling interest,
           or prevent the exercise of voting rights in respect of such investments to
           ensure that any change in significant ownership meets criteria comparable to

            those used for licensing banks. If the supervisor determines that the change
            in significant ownership was based on false information, the supervisor has
            the power to reject, modify or reverse the change in significant ownership.

       (4) The supervisor obtains from banks, through periodic reporting or on-site
           examinations, the names and holdings of all significant shareholders or those
           that exert controlling influence, including the identities of beneficial owners
           of shares being held by nominees, custodians and through vehicles that
           might be used to disguise ownership.

       (5) The supervisor has the power to take appropriate action to modify, reverse
           or otherwise address a change of control that has taken place without the
           necessary notification to or approval from the supervisor.

       (6) Laws or regulations or the supervisor require banks to notify the supervisor
           as soon as they become aware of any material information which may
           negatively affect the suitability of a major shareholder or a party that has a
           controlling interest.


Principle 7 – Major acquisitions

01.76 Principle 7: the supervisor has the power to approve or reject (or recommend to
      the responsible authority the approval or rejection of), and impose prudential
      conditions on, major acquisitions or investments by a bank, against prescribed
      criteria, including the establishment of cross-border operations, and to determine
      that corporate affiliations or structures do not expose the bank to undue risks or
      hinder effective supervision.

01.77 Essential criteria:

       (1) Laws or regulations clearly define:

            (a) what types and amounts (absolute and/or in relation to a bank’s capital)
                of acquisitions and investments need prior supervisory approval; and

            (b) cases for which notification after the acquisition or investment is
                sufficient. Such cases are primarily activities closely related to banking
                and where the investment is small relative to the bank’s capital.

       (2) Laws or regulations provide criteria by which to judge individual proposals.

       (3) Consistent with the licensing requirements, among the objective criteria that
           the supervisor uses is that any new acquisitions and investments do not
           expose the bank to undue risks or hinder effective supervision. The
           supervisor also determines, where appropriate, that these new acquisitions
           and investments will not hinder effective implementation of corrective
           measures in the future. The supervisor can prohibit banks from making
           major acquisitions/investments (including the establishment of cross-border
           banking operations) in countries with laws or regulations prohibiting
           information flows deemed necessary for adequate consolidated supervision.
           The supervisor takes into consideration the effectiveness of supervision in
           the host country and its own ability to exercise supervision on a consolidated
           basis.

       (4) The supervisor determines that the bank has, from the outset, adequate
           financial, managerial and organisational resources to handle the acquisition /
           investment.

       (5) The supervisor is aware of the risks that non-banking activities can pose to a
           banking group and has the means to take action to mitigate those risks. The
           supervisor considers the ability of the bank to manage these risks prior to
           permitting investment in non-banking activities.


    In the case of major acquisitions, this determination may take into
                   account whether the acquisition or investment creates obstacles to the
                   orderly resolution of the bank.


01.78 Additional criterion:

       The supervisor reviews major acquisitions or investments by other entities in the
       banking group to determine that these do not expose the bank to any undue
       risks or hinder effective supervision. The supervisor also determines, where
       appropriate, that these new acquisitions and investments will not hinder effective
       implementation of corrective measures in the future. Where necessary, the
       supervisor is able to effectively address the risks to the bank arising from such
       acquisitions or investments.


    Please refer to BCP01.77 footnote 51.




Principle 8 – Supervisory approach

01.79 Principle 8: an effective system of banking supervision requires the supervisor to
      develop and maintain a forward-looking assessment of the risk profile of
      individual banks and banking groups, proportionate to their systemic importance;
      identify, assess and address risks emanating from banks and the banking system
      as a whole; have a framework in place for early intervention; and have plans in
      place, in partnership with other relevant authorities, to take action to resolve
      banks in an orderly manner if they become non-viable.

01.80 Essential criteria:

       (1) The supervisor uses a methodology for determining and assessing on an
           ongoing basis the nature, impact and scope of the risks which banks or
           banking groups are exposed to, including risks posed by entities in the wider
           group; and which banks or banking groups present to the safety and
           soundness of the banking system. The methodology addresses, among other
           things, the business focus, group structure, risk profile, internal control
           environment and the resolvability of banks, and permits relevant
           comparisons between banks. The frequency and intensity of supervision of
           banks and banking groups reflect the outcome of this analysis.

       (2) The supervisor has processes to understand the risk profile of banks and
           banking groups and employs a well defined methodology to establish a
           forward-looking view of the profile. The nature of the supervisory work on
           each bank is based on the results of this analysis.

       (3) The supervisor assesses banks’ and banking groups’ compliance with
           prudential regulations and other legal requirements.

       (4) The supervisor takes the macroeconomic environment into account in its risk
           assessment of banks and banking groups. The supervisor also takes into
           account cross-sectoral developments, for example in non-bank financial
           institutions, through frequent contact with their regulators.



       (5) The supervisor, in conjunction with other relevant authorities, identifies,
           monitors and assesses the build-up of risks, trends and concentrations within
           and across the banking system as a whole. This includes, among other
           things, banks’ problem assets and sources of liquidity (such as domestic and
           foreign currency funding conditions, and costs). The supervisor incorporates
           this analysis into its assessment of banks and banking groups and addresses
           proactively any serious threat to the stability of the banking system. The
           supervisor communicates any significant trends or emerging risks identified
           to banks and to other relevant authorities with responsibilities for financial
           system stability.

       (6) Drawing on information provided by the bank and other national
           supervisors, the supervisor, in conjunction with the resolution authority,
           assesses the bank’s resolvability where appropriate, having regard to the
           bank’s risk profile and systemic importance. When bank-specific barriers to
           orderly resolution are identified, the supervisor requires, where necessary,
           banks to adopt appropriate measures, such as changes to business
           strategies, managerial, operational and ownership structures, and internal
           procedures. Any such measures take into account their effect on the
           soundness and stability of ongoing business.

       (7) The supervisor has a clear framework or process for handling banks in times
           of stress, such that any decisions to require or undertake recovery or
           resolution actions are made in a timely manner.

       (8) Where the supervisor becomes aware of bank-like activities being performed
           fully or partially outside the regulatory perimeter, the supervisor takes
           appropriate steps to draw the matter to the attention of the responsible
           authority. Where the supervisor becomes aware of banks restructuring their
           activities to avoid the regulatory perimeter, the supervisor takes appropriate
           steps to address this.


Principle 9 – Supervisory techniques and tools

01.81 Principle 9: the supervisor uses an appropriate range of techniques and tools to
      implement the supervisory approach and deploys supervisory resources on a
      proportionate basis, taking into account the risk profile and systemic importance
      of banks.

01.82 Essential criteria:




     (1) The supervisor employs an appropriate mix of on-site and off-site
         supervision to evaluate the condition of banks and banking groups, their risk
         profile, internal control environment and the corrective measures necessary
         to address supervisory concerns. The specific mix between on-site and off-
         site supervision may be determined by the particular conditions and
         circumstances of the country and the bank. The supervisor regularly assesses
         the quality, effectiveness and integration of its on-site and off-site functions,
         and amends its approach, as needed.

     (2) The supervisor has a coherent process for planning and executing on-site
         and off-site activities. There are policies and processes to ensure that such
         activities are conducted on a thorough and consistent basis with clear
         responsibilities, objectives and outputs, and that there is effective
         coordination and information sharing between the on-site and off-site
         functions.

     (3) The supervisor uses a variety of information to regularly review and assess
         the safety and soundness of banks, the evaluation of material risks, and the
         identification of necessary corrective actions and supervisory actions. This
         includes information, such as prudential reports, statistical returns,
         information on a bank’s related entities, and publicly available information.
         The supervisor determines that information provided by banks is reliable
         and obtains, as necessary, additional information on the banks and their
         related entities.

     (4) The supervisor communicates its findings to the bank as appropriate and
         requires the bank to take action to mitigate any particular vulnerabilities that
         have the potential to affect its safety and soundness. The supervisor uses its
         analysis to determine follow-up work required, if any. The supervisor uses a
         variety of tools to regularly review and assess the safety and soundness of
         banks and the banking system, such as those listed below.

         (a) analysis of financial statements and accounts;

         (b) business model analysis;

         (c)   horizontal peer reviews;

         (d) review of the outcome of stress tests undertaken by the bank; and

         (e) analysis of corporate governance, including risk management and
             internal control systems.



     (5) The supervisor, in conjunction with other relevant authorities, seeks to
         identify, assess and mitigate any emerging risks across banks and to the
         banking system as a whole, potentially including conducting supervisory
         stress tests (on individual banks or system-wide). The supervisor
         communicates its findings as appropriate to either banks or the industry and
         requires banks to take action to mitigate any particular vulnerabilities that
         have the potential to affect the stability of the banking system, where
         appropriate. The supervisor uses its analysis to determine follow-up work
         required, if any.

     (6) The supervisor evaluates the work of the bank’s internal audit function, and
         determines whether, and to what extent, it may rely on the internal auditors’
         work to identify areas of potential risk.

     (7) The supervisor maintains sufficiently frequent contacts as appropriate with
         the bank’s Board, non-executive Board members and senior and middle
         management (including heads of individual business units and control
         functions) to develop an understanding of and assess matters such as
         strategy, group structure, corporate governance, performance, capital
         adequacy, liquidity, asset quality, risk management systems and internal
         controls. Where necessary, the supervisor challenges the bank’s Board and
         senior management on the assumptions made in setting strategies and
         business models.

     (8) The supervisor communicates to the bank the findings of its on- and off-site
         supervisory analyses in a timely manner by means of written reports or
         through discussions or meetings with the bank’s management. The
         supervisor meets with the bank’s senior management and the Board to
         discuss the results of supervisory examinations and the external audits, as
         appropriate. The supervisor also meets separately with the bank’s
         independent Board members, as necessary.

     (9) The supervisor undertakes appropriate and timely follow-up to check that
         banks have addressed supervisory concerns or implemented requirements
         communicated to them. This includes early escalation to the appropriate
         level of the supervisory authority and to the bank’s Board if action points are
         not addressed in an adequate or timely manner.

     (10) The supervisor requires banks to notify it in advance of any substantive
          changes in their activities, structure and overall condition, or as soon as
          they become aware of any material adverse developments, including
          breach of legal or prudential requirements.
       (11) The supervisor may make use of independent third parties, such as
            auditors, provided there is a clear and detailed mandate for the work.

             However, the supervisor cannot outsource its prudential responsibilities to
             third parties. When using third parties, the supervisor assesses whether the
             output can be relied upon to the degree intended and takes into
             consideration the biases that may influence third parties.

       (12) The supervisor has an adequate information system which facilitates the
            processing, monitoring and analysis of prudential information. The system
            aids the identification of areas requiring follow-up action.


   On-site work is used as a tool to provide independent verification that
                   adequate policies, procedures and controls exist at banks, determine
                   that information reported by banks is reliable, obtain additional
                   information on the bank and its related companies needed for the
                   assessment of the condition of the bank, monitor the bank’s follow-up
                   on supervisory concerns, etc.

 Off-site work is used as a tool to regularly review and analyse the
                   financial condition of banks, follow up on matters requiring further
                   attention, identify and evaluate developing risks and help identify the
                   priorities, scope of further off-site and on-site work, etc.

    Please refer to Principle 10 BCP01.33(10).


01.83 Additional criterion:

       The supervisor has a framework for periodic independent review, for example by
       an internal audit function or third party assessor, of the adequacy and
       effectiveness of the range of its available supervisory tools and their use, and
       makes changes as appropriate.


Principle 10 – Supervisory reporting

01.84 Principle 10: the supervisor collects, reviews and analyses prudential reports and
      statistical returns from banks on both a solo and a consolidated basis, and
      independently verifies these reports through either on-site examinations or use
      of external experts.

01.85 Essential criteria:



     (1) The supervisor has the power to require banks to submit information, on
         both a solo and a consolidated basis, on their financial condition,
         performance, and risks, on demand and at regular intervals. These reports
         provide information such as on- and off-balance sheet assets and liabilities,
         profit and loss, capital adequacy, liquidity, large exposures, risk
         concentrations (including by economic sector, geography and currency),
         asset quality, loan loss provisioning, related party transactions, interest rate
         risk, and market risk.

     (2) The supervisor provides reporting instructions that clearly describe the
         accounting standards to be used in preparing supervisory reports. Such
         standards are based on accounting principles and rules that are widely
         accepted internationally.

     (3) The supervisor requires banks to have sound governance structures and
         control processes for methodologies that produce valuations. The
         measurement of fair values maximises the use of relevant and reliable inputs
         and are consistently applied for risk management and reporting purposes.
         The valuation framework and control procedures are subject to adequate
         independent validation and verification, either internally or by an external
         expert. The supervisor assesses whether the valuation used for regulatory
         purposes is reliable and prudent. Where the supervisor determines that
         valuations are not sufficiently prudent, the supervisor requires the bank to
         make adjustments to its reporting for capital adequacy or regulatory
         reporting purposes.

     (4) The supervisor collects and analyses information from banks at a frequency
         commensurate with the nature of the information requested, and the risk
         profile and systemic importance of the bank.

     (5) In order to make meaningful comparisons between banks and banking
         groups, the supervisor collects data from all banks and all relevant entities
         covered by consolidated supervision on a comparable basis and related to
         the same dates (stock data) and periods (flow data).

     (6) The supervisor has the power to request and receive any relevant
         information from banks, as well as any entities in the wider group,
         irrespective of their activities, where the supervisor believes that it is material
         to the condition of the bank or banking group, or to the assessment of the
         risks of the bank or banking group or is needed to support resolution
         planning. This includes internal management information.



     (7) The supervisor has the power to access all bank records for the furtherance
         of supervisory work. The supervisor also has similar access to the bank’s
         Board, management and staff, when required.

     (8) The supervisor has a means of enforcing compliance with the requirement
         that the information be submitted on a timely and accurate basis. The
         supervisor determines the appropriate level of the bank’s senior
         management is responsible for the accuracy of supervisory returns, imposes
         sanctions for misreporting and persistent errors, and requires that inaccurate
         information be amended.

     (9) The supervisor utilises policies and procedures to determine the validity and
         integrity of supervisory information. This includes a programme for the
         periodic verification of supervisory returns by means either of the supervisor’
         s own staff or of external experts.

     (10) The supervisor clearly defines and documents the roles and responsibilities
          of external experts, including the scope of the work, when they are
          appointed to conduct supervisory tasks. The supervisor assesses the
          suitability of experts for the designated task(s) and the quality of the work
          and takes into consideration conflicts of interest that could influence the
          output/recommendations by external experts. External experts may be
          utilised for routine validation or to examine specific aspects of banks’
          operations.

     (11) The supervisor requires that external experts bring to its attention promptly
          any material shortcomings identified during the course of any work
          undertaken by them for supervisory purposes.

     (12) The supervisor has a process in place to periodically review the information
          collected to determine that it satisfies a supervisory need.


 Please refer to Principle 2 BCP01.33(2).

 Please refer to Principle 1, Essential Criterion 5 BCP01.65.

 May be external auditors or other qualified external parties,
                   commissioned with an appropriate mandate, and subject to
                   appropriate confidentiality restrictions.

May be external auditors or other qualified external parties,
                   commissioned with an appropriate mandate, and subject to
                   appropriate confidentiality restrictions. External experts may conduct
                   reviews used by the supervisor, yet it is ultimately the supervisor that
                   must be satisfied with the results of the reviews conducted by such
                   external experts.



Principle 11 – Corrective and sanctioning powers of supervisors

01.86 Principle 11: the supervisor acts at an early stage to address unsafe and unsound
      practices or activities that could pose risks to banks or to the banking system. The
      supervisor has at its disposal an adequate range of supervisory tools to bring
      about timely corrective actions. This includes the ability to revoke the banking
      licence or to recommend its revocation.

01.87 Essential criteria:

       (1) The supervisor raises supervisory concerns with the bank’s management or,
           where appropriate, the bank’s Board, at an early stage, and requires that
           these concerns be addressed in a timely manner. Where the supervisor
           requires the bank to take significant corrective actions, these are addressed
           in a written document to the bank’s Board. The supervisor requires the bank
           to submit regular written progress reports and checks that corrective actions
           are completed satisfactorily. The supervisor follows through conclusively and
           in a timely manner on matters that are identified.

       (2) The supervisor has available an appropriate range of supervisory tools for
           use when, in the supervisor’s judgment, a bank is not complying with laws,
           regulations or supervisory actions, is engaged in unsafe or unsound practices
           or in activities that could pose risks to the bank or the banking system, or
           when the interests of depositors are otherwise threatened.




       (3) The supervisor has the power to act where a bank falls below established
           regulatory threshold requirements, including prescribed regulatory ratios or
           measurements. The supervisor also has the power to intervene at an early
           stage to require a bank to take action to prevent it from reaching its
           regulatory threshold requirements. The supervisor has a range of options to
           address such scenarios.

       (4) The supervisor has available a broad range of possible measures to address,
           at an early stage, such scenarios as described in BCP01.87(2) above. These
           measures include the ability to require a bank to take timely corrective action
           or to impose sanctions expeditiously. In practice, the range of measures is
           applied in accordance with the gravity of a situation. The supervisor provides
           clear prudential objectives or sets out the actions to be taken, which may
           include restricting the current activities of the bank, imposing more stringent
           prudential limits and requirements, withholding approval of new activities or
           acquisitions, restricting or suspending payments to shareholders or share
           repurchases, restricting asset transfers, barring individuals from the banking
           sector, replacing or restricting the powers of managers, Board members or
           controlling owners, facilitating a takeover by or merger with a healthier
           institution, providing for the interim management of the bank, and revoking
           or recommending the revocation of the banking licence.

       (5) The supervisor applies sanctions not only to the bank but, when and if
           necessary, also to management and/or the Board, or individuals therein.

       (6) The supervisor has the power to take corrective actions, including ring-
           fencing of the bank from the actions of parent companies, subsidiaries,
           parallel-owned banking structures and other related entities in matters that
           could impair the safety and soundness of the bank or the banking system.

       (7) The supervisor cooperates and collaborates with relevant authorities in
           deciding when and how to effect the orderly resolution of a problem bank
           situation (which could include closure, or assisting in restructuring, or merger
           with a stronger institution).


    Please refer to Principle 1 BCP01.33(1).


01.88 Additional criteria:

       (1) Laws or regulations guard against the supervisor unduly delaying
           appropriate corrective actions.




       (2) When taking formal corrective action in relation to a bank, the supervisor
           informs the supervisor of non-bank related financial entities of its actions
           and, where appropriate, coordinates its actions with them.


Principle 12 – Consolidated supervision

01.89 Principle 12: an essential element of banking supervision is that the supervisor
      supervises the banking group on a consolidated basis, adequately monitoring
      and, as appropriate, applying prudential standards to all aspects of the business
      conducted by the banking group worldwide.

01.90 Essential criteria:

       (1) The supervisor understands the overall structure of the banking group and is
           familiar with all the material activities (including non-banking activities)
           conducted by entities in the wider group, both domestic and cross-border.
           The supervisor understands and assesses how group-wide risks are managed
           and takes action when risks arising from the banking group and other
           entities in the wider group, in particular contagion and reputation risks, may
           jeopardise the safety and soundness of the bank and the banking system.

       (2) The supervisor imposes prudential standards and collects and analyses
           financial and other information on a consolidated basis for the banking
           group, covering areas such as capital adequacy, liquidity, large exposures,
           exposures to related parties, lending limits and group structure.

       (3) The supervisor reviews whether the oversight of a bank’s foreign operations
           by management (of the parent bank or head office and, where relevant, the
           holding company) is adequate having regard to their risk profile and
           systemic importance and there is no hindrance in host countries for the
           parent bank to have access to all the material information from their foreign
           branches and subsidiaries. The supervisor also determines that banks’
           policies and processes require the local management of any cross-border
           operations to have the necessary expertise to manage those operations in a
           safe and sound manner, and in compliance with supervisory and regulatory
           requirements. The home supervisor takes into account the effectiveness of
           supervision conducted in the host countries in which its banks have material
           operations.




       (4) The home supervisor visits the foreign offices periodically, the location and
           frequency being determined by the risk profile and systemic importance of
           the foreign operation. The supervisor meets the host supervisors during
           these visits. The supervisor has a policy for assessing whether it needs to
           conduct on-site examinations of a bank’s foreign operations, or require
           additional reporting, and has the power and resources to take those steps as
           and when appropriate.

       (5) The supervisor reviews the main activities of parent companies, and of
           companies affiliated with the parent companies, that have a material impact
           on the safety and soundness of the bank and the banking group, and takes
           appropriate supervisory action.

       (6) The supervisor limits the range of activities the consolidated group may
           conduct and the locations in which activities can be conducted (including the
           closing of foreign offices) if it determines that:

            (a) the safety and soundness of the bank and banking group is
                compromised because the activities expose the bank or banking group
                to excessive risk and/or are not properly managed;

            (b) the supervision by other supervisors is not adequate relative to the risks
                the activities present; and/or

            (c)   the exercise of effective supervision on a consolidated basis is hindered.

       (7) In addition to supervising on a consolidated basis, the responsible supervisor
           supervises individual banks in the group. The responsible supervisor
           supervises each bank on a stand-alone basis and understands its relationship
           with other members of the group.
   Please refer to Principle 16, Additional Criterion 2 BCP01.102.


01.91 Additional criterion:

       For countries which allow corporate ownership of banks, the supervisor has the
       power to establish and enforce fit and proper standards for owners and senior
       management of parent companies.


Principle 13 – Home-host relationships


01.92 Principle 13: home and host supervisors of cross-border banking groups share
      information and cooperate for effective supervision of the group and group
      entities, and effective handling of crisis situations. Supervisors require the local
      operations of foreign banks to be conducted to the same standards as those
      required of domestic banks.

01.93 Essential criteria:

       (1) The home supervisor establishes bank-specific supervisory colleges for
           banking groups with material cross-border operations to enhance its
           effective oversight, taking into account the risk profile and systemic
           importance of the banking group and the corresponding needs of its
           supervisors. In its broadest sense, the host supervisor who has a relevant
           subsidiary or a significant branch in its jurisdiction and who, therefore, has a
           shared interest in the effective supervisory oversight of the banking group, is
           included in the college. The structure of the college reflects the nature of the
           banking group and the needs of its supervisors.

       (2) Home and host supervisors share appropriate information on a timely basis
           in line with their respective roles and responsibilities, both bilaterally and
           through colleges. This includes information both on the material risks and
           risk management practices of the banking group and on the supervisors’
           assessments of the safety and soundness of the relevant entity under their
           jurisdiction. Informal or formal arrangements (such as memoranda of
           understanding) are in place to enable the exchange of confidential
           information.

       (3) Home and host supervisors coordinate and plan supervisory activities or
           undertake collaborative work if common areas of interest are identified in
           order to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of supervision of cross-
           border banking groups.

       (4) The home supervisor develops an agreed communication strategy with the
           relevant host supervisors. The scope and nature of the strategy reflects the
           risk profile and systemic importance of the cross-border operations of the
           bank or banking group. Home and host supervisors also agree on the
           communication of views and outcomes of joint activities and college
           meetings to banks, where appropriate, to ensure consistency of messages on
           group-wide issues.



      (5) Where appropriate, due to the bank’s risk profile and systemic importance,
          the home supervisor, working with its national resolution authorities,
          develops a framework for cross-border crisis cooperation and coordination
          among the relevant home and host authorities. The relevant authorities


           share information on crisis preparations from an early stage in a way that
           does not materially compromise the prospect of a successful resolution and
           subject to the application of rules on confidentiality.

      (6) Where appropriate, due to the bank’s risk profile and systemic importance,
          the home supervisor, working with its national resolution authorities and
          relevant host authorities, develops a group resolution plan. The relevant
          authorities share any information necessary for the development and
          maintenance of a credible resolution plan. Supervisors also alert and consult
          relevant authorities and supervisors (both home and host) promptly when
          taking any recovery and resolution measures.

      (7) The host supervisor’s national laws or regulations require that the cross-
          border operations of foreign banks are subject to prudential, inspection and
          regulatory reporting requirements similar to those for domestic banks.

      (8) The home supervisor is given on-site access to local offices and subsidiaries
          of a banking group in order to facilitate their assessment of the group’s
          safety and soundness and compliance with customer due diligence
          requirements. The home supervisor informs host supervisors of intended
          visits to local offices and subsidiaries of banking groups.

      (9) The host supervisor supervises booking offices in a manner consistent with
          internationally agreed standards. The supervisor does not permit shell banks
          or the continued operation of shell banks.

      (10) A supervisor that takes consequential action on the basis of information
           received from another supervisor consults with that supervisor, to the
           extent possible, before taking such action.



   See Principle 3 of the Basel’s Committee’s Principles for effective
                  supervisory colleges for further information on the extent of
                  information sharing expected.



Principle 14 – Corporate governance



01.94 Principle 14: the supervisor determines that banks and banking groups have
      robust corporate governance policies and processes covering, for example,
      strategic direction, group and organisational structure, control environment,
      responsibilities of the banks’ Boards and senior management, and compensation.
      These policies and processes are commensurate with the risk profile and systemic
      importance of the bank.

01.95 Essential criteria:

       (1) Laws, regulations or the supervisor establish the responsibilities of a bank’s
           Board and senior management with respect to corporate governance to
           ensure there is effective control over the bank’s entire business. The
           supervisor provides guidance to banks and banking groups on expectations
           for sound corporate governance.

       (2) The supervisor regularly assesses a bank’s corporate governance policies and
           practices, and their implementation, and determines that the bank has
           robust corporate governance policies and processes commensurate with its
           risk profile and systemic importance. The supervisor requires banks and
           banking groups to correct deficiencies in a timely manner.

       (3) The supervisor determines that governance structures and processes for
           nominating and appointing Board members are appropriate for the bank
           and across the banking group. Board membership includes experienced non-
           executive members, where appropriate. Commensurate with the risk profile
           and systemic importance, Board structures include audit, risk oversight and
           remuneration committees with experienced non-executive members.

       (4) Board members are suitably qualified, effective and exercise their “duty of
           care” and “duty of loyalty”.

       (5) The supervisor determines that the bank’s Board approves and oversees
           implementation of the bank’s strategic direction, risk appetite64 and strategy,
           and related policies, establishes and communicates corporate culture and
           values (eg through a code of conduct), and establishes conflicts of interest
           policies and a strong control environment.

       (6) The supervisor determines that the bank’s Board, except where required
           otherwise by laws or regulations, has established fit and proper standards in
           selecting senior management, maintains plans for succession, and actively
           and critically oversees senior management’s execution of Board strategies,
           including monitoring senior management’s performance against standards
           established for them.



       (7) The supervisor determines that the bank’s Board actively oversees the design
           and operation of the bank’s and banking group’s compensation system, and
           that it has appropriate incentives, which are aligned with prudent risk taking.
           The compensation system, and related performance standards, are
           consistent with long-term objectives and financial soundness of the bank
           and is rectified if there are deficiencies.

       (8) The supervisor determines that the bank’s Board and senior management
           know and understand the bank’s and banking group’s operational structure
           and its risks, including those arising from the use of structures that impede
           transparency (eg special-purpose or related structures). The supervisor
           determines that risks are effectively managed and mitigated, where
           appropriate.

       (9) The supervisor has the power to require changes in the composition of the
           bank’s Board if it believes that any individuals are not fulfilling their duties
           related to the satisfaction of these criteria.


 The Organisation of Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD)
                   glossary of corporate governance-related terms in “Experiences from
                   the Regional Corporate Governance Roundtables”, 2003,  defines “duty of care” as “The duty of a
                   board member to act on an informed and prudent basis in decisions
                   with respect to the company. Often interpreted as requiring the board
                   member to approach the affairs of the company in the same way that
                   a ’prudent man’ would approach their own affairs. Liability under the
                   duty of care is frequently mitigated by the business judgement rule.”
                   The OECD defines “duty of loyalty” as “The duty of the board member
                   to act in the interest of the company and shareholders. The duty of
                   loyalty should prevent individual board members from acting in their
                   own interest, or the interest of another individual or group, at the
                   expense of the company and all shareholders.”

      “Risk appetite” reflects the level of aggregate risk that the bank’s Board
                   is willing to assume and manage in the pursuit of the bank’s business
                   objectives. Risk appetite may include both quantitative and qualitative
                   elements, as appropriate, and encompass a range of measures. For the
                   purposes of this document, the terms “risk appetite” and “risk
                   tolerance” are treated synonymously.


01.96 Additional criterion:



       Laws, regulations or the supervisor require banks to notify the supervisor as soon
       as they become aware of any material and bona fide information that may
       negatively affect the fitness and propriety of a bank’s Board member or a
       member of the senior management.


Principle 15 – Risk management process

01.97 Principle 15: the supervisor determines that banks have a comprehensive risk
      management process (including effective Board and senior management
      oversight) to identify, measure, evaluate, monitor, report and control or mitigate
      all material risks on a timely basis and to assess the adequacy of their capital and
      liquidity in relation to their risk profile and market and macroeconomic
      conditions. This extends to development and review of contingency
      arrangements (including robust and credible recovery plans where warranted)
      that take into account the specific circumstances of the bank. The risk
      management process is commensurate with the risk profile and systemic
      importance of the bank.

01.98 Essential criteria:

       (1) The supervisor determines that banks have appropriate risk management
           strategies that have been approved by the banks’ Boards and that the
           Boards set a suitable risk appetite to define the level of risk the banks are
           willing to assume or tolerate. The supervisor also determines that the Board
           ensures that:

            (a) a sound risk management culture is established throughout the bank;

            (b) policies and processes are developed for risk-taking, that are consistent
                with the risk management strategy and the established risk appetite;

            (c)   uncertainties attached to risk measurement are recognised;

            (d) appropriate limits are established that are consistent with the bank’s risk
                appetite, risk profile and capital strength, and that are understood by,
                and regularly communicated to, relevant staff; and

            (e) senior management take the steps necessary to monitor and control all
                material risks consistent with the approved strategies and risk appetite.


     (2) The supervisor requires banks to have comprehensive risk management
         policies and processes to identify, measure, evaluate, monitor, report and
         control or mitigate all material risks. The supervisor determines that these
         processes are adequate:


         (a) to provide a comprehensive “bank-wide” view of risk across all material
             risk types;

         (b) for the risk profile and systemic importance of the bank; and

         (c)   to assess risks arising from the macroeconomic environment affecting
               the markets in which the bank operates and to incorporate such
               assessments into the bank’s risk management process.

     (3) The supervisor determines that risk management strategies, policies,
         processes and limits are properly documented; regularly reviewed and
         appropriately adjusted to reflect changing risk appetites, risk profiles and
         market and macroeconomic conditions; and communicated within the bank.
         The supervisor determines that exceptions to established policies, processes
         and limits receive the prompt attention of, and authorisation by, the
         appropriate level of management and the bank’s Board where necessary.

     (4) The supervisor determines that the bank’s Board and senior management
         obtain sufficient information on, and understand, the nature and level of risk
         being taken by the bank and how this risk relates to adequate levels of
         capital and liquidity. The supervisor also determines that the Board and
         senior management regularly review and understand the implications and
         limitations (including the risk measurement uncertainties) of the risk
         management information that they receive.

     (5) The supervisor determines that banks have an appropriate internal process
         for assessing their overall capital and liquidity adequacy in relation to their
         risk appetite and risk profile. The supervisor reviews and evaluates banks’
         internal capital and liquidity adequacy assessments and strategies.




     (6) Where banks use models to measure components of risk, the supervisor
         determines that the following conditions are met. In addition, the supervisor
         assesses whether the model outputs appear reasonable as a reflection of the
         risks assumed.

         (a) Banks comply with supervisory standards on the use of models;

         (b) the banks’ Boards and senior management understand the limitations
             and uncertainties relating to the output of the models and the risk
             inherent in their use; and

         (c)   banks perform regular and independent validation and testing of the
               models.

     (7) The supervisor determines that banks have information systems that are
         adequate (both under normal circumstances and in periods of stress) for
         measuring, assessing and reporting on the size, composition and quality of
         exposures on a bank-wide basis across all risk types, products and
         counterparties. The supervisor also determines that these reports reflect the
         bank’s risk profile and capital and liquidity needs, and are provided on a
         timely basis to the bank’s Board and senior management in a form suitable
         for their use.

     (8) The supervisor determines that banks have adequate policies and processes
         to ensure that the banks’ Boards and senior management understand the
         risks inherent in new products, material modifications to existing products,
         and major management initiatives (such as changes in systems, processes,
         business model and major acquisitions). The supervisor determines that the
         Boards and senior management are able to monitor and manage these risks
         on an ongoing basis. The supervisor also determines that the bank’s policies
         and processes require the undertaking of any major activities of this nature
         to be approved by their Board or a specific committee of the Board.

     (9) The supervisor determines that banks have risk management functions
         covering all material risks with sufficient resources, independence, authority
         and access to the banks’ Boards to perform their duties effectively. The
         supervisor determines that their duties are clearly segregated from risk-
         taking functions in the bank and that they report on risk exposures directly
         to the Board and senior management. The supervisor also determines that
         the risk management function is subject to regular review by the internal
         audit function.



     (10) The supervisor requires larger and more complex banks to have a dedicated
          risk management unit overseen by a Chief Risk Officer (CRO) or equivalent
          function. If the CRO of a bank is removed from his/her position for any

           reason, this should be done with the prior approval of the Board and
           generally should be disclosed publicly. The bank should also discuss the
           reasons for such removal with its supervisor.

     (11) The supervisor issues standards related to, in particular, credit risk, market
          risk, liquidity risk, interest rate risk in the banking book and operational risk.

     (12) The supervisor requires banks to have appropriate contingency
          arrangements, as an integral part of their risk management process, to
          address risks that may materialise and actions to be taken in stress
          conditions (including those that will pose a serious risk to their viability). If
          warranted by its risk profile and systemic importance, the contingency
          arrangements include robust and credible recovery plans that take into
          account the specific circumstances of the bank. The supervisor, working
          with resolution authorities as appropriate, assesses the adequacy of banks’
          contingency arrangements in the light of their risk profile and systemic
          importance (including reviewing any recovery plans) and their likely
          feasibility during periods of stress. The supervisor seeks improvements if
          deficiencies are identified.



       (13) The supervisor requires banks to have forward-looking stress testing
            programmes, commensurate with their risk profile and systemic
            importance, as an integral part of their risk management process. The
            supervisor regularly assesses a bank’s stress testing programme and
            determines that it captures material sources of risk and adopts plausible
            adverse scenarios. The supervisor also determines that the bank integrates
            the results into its decision-making, risk management processes (including
            contingency arrangements) and the assessment of its capital and liquidity
            levels. The supervisor requires corrective action if material deficiencies are
            identified in a bank’s stress testing programme or if the results of stress
            tests are not adequately taken into consideration in the bank’s decision-
            making process. Where appropriate, the scope of the supervisor’s
            assessment includes the extent to which the stress testing programme:

             (a) promotes risk identification and control, on a bank-wide basis;

             (b) adopts suitably severe assumptions and seeks to address feedback
                 effects and system-wide interaction between risks;

             (c)   benefits from the active involvement of the Board and senior
                   management; and

             (d) is appropriately documented and regularly maintained and updated.

       (14) The supervisor assesses whether banks appropriately account for risks
            (including liquidity impacts) in their internal pricing, performance
            measurement and new product approval process for all significant business
            activities.


     New products include those developed by the bank or by a third party
                    and purchased or distributed by the bank.


01.99 Additional criterion:

       The supervisor requires banks to have appropriate policies and processes for
       assessing other material risks not directly addressed in the subsequent Principles,
       such as reputational and strategic risks.


Principle 16 – Capital adequacy


01.100 Principle 16: the supervisor sets prudent and appropriate capital adequacy
      requirements for banks that reflect the risks undertaken by, and presented by, a

       bank in the context of the markets and macroeconomic conditions in which it
       operates. The supervisor defines the components of capital, bearing in mind their
       ability to absorb losses. At least for internationally active banks, capital
       requirements are not less than the applicable Basel standards.

01.101 Essential criteria:

       (1) Laws, regulations or the supervisor require banks to calculate and
           consistently observe prescribed capital requirements, including thresholds by
           reference to which a bank might be subject to supervisory action. Laws,
           regulations or the supervisor define the qualifying components of capital,
           ensuring that emphasis is given to those elements of capital permanently
           available to absorb losses on a going concern basis.

       (2) At least for internationally active banks, the definition of capital, the risk
           coverage, the method of calculation and thresholds for the prescribed
           requirements are not lower than those established in the applicable Basel
           standards.

       (3) The supervisor has the power to impose a specific capital charge and/or
           limits on all material risk exposures, if warranted, including in respect of risks
           that the supervisor considers not to have been adequately transferred or
           mitigated through transactions (eg securitisation transactions) entered into
           by the bank. Both on-balance sheet and off-balance sheet risks are included
           in the calculation of prescribed capital requirements.

       (4) The prescribed capital requirements reflect the risk profile and systemic
           importance of banks in the context of the markets and macroeconomic
           conditions in which they operate and constrain the build-up of leverage in
           banks and the banking sector. Laws and regulations in a particular
           jurisdiction may set higher overall capital adequacy standards than the
           applicable Basel requirements.




                                                  (5) The use of banks’ internal assessments of risk as inputs to the calculation of
         regulatory capital is approved by the supervisor. If the supervisor approves
         such use:

         (a) such assessments adhere to rigorous qualifying standards;

         (b) any cessation of such use, or any material modification of the bank’s
             processes and models for producing such internal assessments, are
             subject to the approval of the supervisor;


         (c)   the supervisor has the capacity to evaluate a bank’s internal assessment
               process in order to determine that the relevant qualifying standards are
               met and that the bank’s internal assessments can be relied upon as a
               reasonable reflection of the risks undertaken;

         (d) the supervisor has the power to impose conditions on its approvals if
             the supervisor considers it prudent to do so; and

         (e) if a bank does not continue to meet the qualifying standards or the
             conditions imposed by the supervisor on an ongoing basis, the
             supervisor has the power to revoke its approval.

     (6) The supervisor has the power to require banks to adopt a forward-looking
         approach to capital management (including the conduct of appropriate
         stress testing). The supervisor has the power to require banks:

         (a) to set capital levels and manage available capital in anticipation of
             possible events or changes in market conditions that could have an
             adverse effect; and

         (b) to have in place feasible contingency arrangements to maintain or
             strengthen capital positions in times of stress, as appropriate in the light
             of the risk profile and systemic importance of the bank.



     The Basel Capital Accord was designed to apply to internationally
                   active banks, which must calculate and apply capital adequacy ratios
                   on a consolidated basis, including subsidiaries undertaking banking
                   and financial business. Jurisdictions adopting the Basel II and Basel III
                   capital adequacy frameworks would apply such ratios on a fully
                   consolidated basis to all internationally active banks and their holding
                   companies; in addition, supervisors must test that banks are
                   adequately capitalised on a stand-alone basis.

 Reference documents: Enhancements to the Basel II framework, July
                   2009 and: International convergence of capital measurement and
                   capital standards: a revised framework, comprehensive version, June
                   2006.

In assessing the adequacy of a bank’s capital levels in light of its risk
                   profile, the supervisor critically focuses, among other things, on (a) the
                   potential loss absorbency of the instruments included in the bank’s
                   capital base, (b) the appropriateness of risk weights as a proxy for the
                   risk profile of its exposures, (c) the adequacy of provisions and reserves
                   to cover loss expected on its exposures and (d) the quality of its risk
                   management and controls. Consequently, capital requirements may
                   vary from bank to bank to ensure that each bank is operating with the
                   appropriate level of capital to support the risks it is running and the
                   risks it poses.

“Stress testing” comprises a range of activities from simple sensitivity
                   analysis to more complex scenario analyses and reverse stress testing.


01.102 Additional criteria:

       (1) For non-internationally active banks, capital requirements, including the
           definition of capital, the risk coverage, the method of calculation, the scope
           of application and the capital required, are broadly consistent with the
           principles of the applicable Basel standards relevant to internationally active
           banks.

       (2) The supervisor requires adequate distribution of capital within different
           entities of a banking group according to the allocation of risks.


     Please refer to Principle 12, Essential Criterion 7 BCP01.90.





Principle 17 – Credit risk

01.103 Principle 17: the supervisor determines that banks have an adequate credit risk
      management process that takes into account their risk appetite, risk profile and
      market and macroeconomic conditions. This includes prudent policies and
      processes to identify, measure, evaluate, monitor, report and control or mitigate
      credit risk (including counterparty credit risk) on a timely basis. The full credit
      lifecycle is covered including credit underwriting, credit evaluation, and the
      ongoing management of the bank’s loan and investment portfolios.

01.104 Essential criteria:

       (1) Laws, regulations or the supervisor require banks to have appropriate credit
           risk management processes that provide a comprehensive bank-wide view of
           credit risk exposures. The supervisor determines that the processes are
           consistent with the risk appetite, risk profile, systemic importance and capital
           strength of the bank, take into account market and macroeconomic
           conditions and result in prudent standards of credit underwriting, evaluation,
           administration and monitoring.

       (2) The supervisor determines that a bank’s Board approves, and regularly
           reviews, the credit risk management strategy and significant policies and
           processes for assuming, identifying, measuring, evaluating, monitoring,
           reporting and controlling or mitigating credit risk (including counterparty
           credit risk and associated potential future exposure) and that these are
           consistent with the risk appetite set by the Board. The supervisor also
           determines that senior management implements the credit risk strategy
           approved by the Board and develops the aforementioned policies and
           processes.





     (3) The supervisor requires, and regularly determines, that such policies and
         processes establish an appropriate and properly controlled credit risk
         environment, including:

         (a) a well documented and effectively implemented strategy and sound
             policies and processes for assuming credit risk, without undue reliance
             on external credit assessments;

         (b) well defined criteria and policies and processes for approving new
             exposures (including prudent underwriting standards) as well as for
             renewing and refinancing existing exposures, and identifying the
             appropriate approval authority for the size and complexity of the
             exposures;


         (c)   effective credit administration policies and processes, including
               continued analysis of a borrower’s ability and willingness to repay under
               the terms of the debt (including review of the performance of
               underlying assets in the case of securitisation exposures); monitoring of
               documentation, legal covenants, contractual requirements, collateral
               and other forms of credit risk mitigation; and an appropriate asset
               grading or classification system;

         (d) effective information systems for accurate and timely identification,
             aggregation and reporting of credit risk exposures to the bank’s Board
             and senior management on an ongoing basis;

         (e) prudent and appropriate credit limits, consistent with the bank’s risk
             appetite, risk profile and capital strength, which are understood by, and
             regularly communicated to, relevant staff;

         (f)   exception tracking and reporting processes that ensure prompt action
               at the appropriate level of the bank’s senior management or Board
               where necessary; and

         (g) effective controls (including in respect of the quality, reliability and
             relevancy of data and in respect of validation procedures) around the
             use of models to identify and measure credit risk and set limits.

     (4) The supervisor determines that banks have policies and processes to monitor
         the total indebtedness of entities to which they extend credit and any risk
         factors that may result in default including significant unhedged foreign
         exchange risk.


       (5) The supervisor requires that banks make credit decisions free of conflicts of
           interest and on an arm’s length basis.

       (6) The supervisor requires that the credit policy prescribes that major credit risk
           exposures exceeding a certain amount or percentage of the bank’s capital
           are to be decided by the bank’s Board or senior management. The same
           applies to credit risk exposures that are especially risky or otherwise not in
           line with the mainstream of the bank’s activities.

       (7) The supervisor has full access to information in the credit and investment
           portfolios and to the bank officers involved in assuming, managing,
           controlling and reporting on credit risk.

       (8) The supervisor requires banks to include their credit risk exposures into their
           stress testing programmes for risk management purposes.


    “Assuming” includes the assumption of all types of risk that give rise to
                   credit risk, including credit risk or counterparty risk associated with
                   various financial instruments.



Principle 18 – Problem assets, provisions and reserves

01.105 Principle 18: the supervisor determines that banks have adequate policies and
      processes for the early identification and management of problem assets, and the
      maintenance of adequate provisions and reserves.

01.106 Essential criteria:

       (1) Laws, regulations or the supervisor require banks to formulate policies and
           processes for identifying and managing problem assets. In addition, laws,
           regulations or the supervisor require regular review by banks of their
           problem assets (at an individual level or at a portfolio level for assets with
           homogenous characteristics) and asset classification, provisioning and write-
           offs.

       (2) The supervisor determines the adequacy of a bank’s policies and processes
           for grading and classifying its assets and establishing appropriate and robust
           provisioning levels. The reviews supporting the supervisor’s opinion may be
           conducted by external experts, with the supervisor reviewing the work of the
           external experts to determine the adequacy of the bank’s policies and
           processes.




     (3) The supervisor determines that the bank’s system for classification and
         provisioning takes into account off-balance sheet exposures.

     (4) The supervisor determines that banks have appropriate policies and
         processes to ensure that provisions and write-offs are timely and reflect
         realistic repayment and recovery expectations, taking into account market
         and macroeconomic conditions.

     (5) The supervisor determines that banks have appropriate policies and
         processes, and organisational resources for the early identification of
         deteriorating assets, for ongoing oversight of problem assets, and for
         collecting on past due obligations. For portfolios of credit exposures with
         homogeneous characteristics, the exposures are classified when payments
         are contractually in arrears for a minimum number of days (eg 30, 60, 90
         days). The supervisor tests banks’ treatment of assets with a view to
         identifying any material circumvention of the classification and provisioning
         standards (eg rescheduling, refinancing or reclassification of loans).

     (6) The supervisor obtains information on a regular basis, and in relevant detail,
         or has full access to information concerning the classification of assets and
         provisioning. The supervisor requires banks to have adequate
         documentation to support their classification and provisioning levels.

     (7) The supervisor assesses whether the classification of the assets and the
         provisioning is adequate for prudential purposes. If asset classifications are
         inaccurate or provisions are deemed to be inadequate for prudential
         purposes (eg if the supervisor considers existing or anticipated deterioration
         in asset quality to be of concern or if the provisions do not fully reflect losses
         expected to be incurred), the supervisor has the power to require the bank
         to adjust its classifications of individual assets, increase its levels of
         provisioning, reserves or capital and, if necessary, impose other remedial
         measures.

     (8) The supervisor requires banks to have appropriate mechanisms in place for
         regularly assessing the value of risk mitigants, including guarantees, credit
         derivatives and collateral. The valuation of collateral reflects the net
         realisable value, taking into account prevailing market conditions.




     (9) Laws, regulations or the supervisor establish criteria for assets to be:

          (a) identified as a problem asset (eg a loan is identified as a problem asset
              when there is reason to believe that all amounts due, including principal
              and interest, will not be collected in accordance with the contractual
              terms of the loan agreement); and


          (b) reclassified as performing (eg a loan is reclassified as performing when
              all arrears have been cleared and the loan has been brought fully
              current, repayments have been made in a timely manner over a
              continuous repayment period and continued collection, in accordance
              with the contractual terms, is expected).

     (10) The supervisor determines that the bank’s Board obtains timely and
          appropriate information on the condition of the bank’s asset portfolio,
          including classification of assets, the level of provisions and reserves and
          major problem assets. The information includes, at a minimum, summary
          results of the latest asset review process, comparative trends in the overall
          quality of problem assets, and measurements of existing or anticipated
          deterioration in asset quality and losses expected to be incurred.

     (11) The supervisor requires that valuation, classification and provisioning, at
          least for significant exposures, are conducted on an individual item basis.
          For this purpose, supervisors require banks to set an appropriate threshold
          for the purpose of identifying significant exposures and to regularly review
          the level of the threshold.

     (12) The supervisor regularly assesses any trends and concentrations in risk and
          risk build-up across the banking sector in relation to banks’ problem assets
          and takes into account any observed concentration in the risk mitigation
          strategies adopted by banks and the potential effect on the efficacy of the
          mitigant in reducing loss. The supervisor considers the adequacy of
          provisions and reserves at the bank and banking system level in the light of
          this assessment.


  It is recognised that there are two different types of off-balance-sheet
                 exposures: those that can be unilaterally cancelled by the bank (based
                 on contractual arrangements and therefore may not be subject to
                 provisioning) and those that cannot be unilaterally cancelled.



Principle 19 – Concentration risk and large exposure limits

01.107 Principle 19: the supervisor determines that banks have adequate policies and
      processes to identify, measure, evaluate, monitor, report and control or mitigate
      concentrations of risk on a timely basis. Supervisors set prudential limits to
      restrict bank exposures to single counterparties or groups of connected
      counterparties.

01.108 Essential criteria:

       (1) Laws, regulations or the supervisor require banks to have policies and
           processes that provide a comprehensive bank-wide view of significant
           sources of concentration risk. Exposures arising from off-balance sheet as
           well as on-balance sheet items and from contingent liabilities are captured.

       (2) The supervisor determines that a bank’s information systems identify and
           aggregate on a timely basis, and facilitate active management of, exposures
           creating risk concentrations and large exposure to single counterparties or
           groups of connected counterparties.

       (3) The supervisor determines that a bank’s risk management policies and
           processes establish thresholds for acceptable concentrations of risk,
           reflecting the bank’s risk appetite, risk profile and capital strength, which are
           understood by, and regularly communicated to, relevant staff. The supervisor
           also determines that the bank’s policies and processes require all material
           concentrations to be regularly reviewed and reported to the bank’s Board.

       (4) The supervisor regularly obtains information that enables concentrations
           within a bank’s portfolio, including sectoral, geographical and currency
           exposures, to be reviewed.

       (5) In respect of credit exposure to single counterparties or groups of connected
           counterparties, laws or regulations explicitly define, or the supervisor has the
           power to define, a “group of connected counterparties” to reflect actual risk
           exposure. The supervisor may exercise discretion in applying this definition
           on a case by case basis.

       (6) Laws, regulations or the supervisor set prudent and appropriate
           requirements to control and constrain large credit exposures to a single
           counterparty or a group of connected counterparties. “Exposures” for this
           purpose include all claims and transactions (including those giving rise to
           counterparty credit risk exposure), on-balance sheet as well as off-balance
           sheet. The supervisor determines that senior management monitors these
           limits and that they are not exceeded on a solo or consolidated basis.




       (7) The supervisor requires banks to include the impact of significant risk
           concentrations into their stress testing programmes for risk management
           purposes.


   This includes credit concentrations through exposure to: single
                   counterparties and groups of connected counterparties both direct and
                   indirect (such as through exposure to collateral or to credit protection
                   provided by a single counterparty), counterparties in the same industry,
                   economic sector or geographic region and counterparties whose
                   financial performance is dependent on the same activity or commodity
                   as well as off-balance sheet exposures (including guarantees and other
                   commitments) and also market and other risk concentrations where a
                   bank is overly exposed to particular asset classes, products, collateral,
                   or currencies.

     The measure of credit exposure, in the context of large exposures to
                   single counterparties and groups of connected counterparties, should
                   reflect the maximum possible loss from their failure (ie it should
                   encompass actual claims and potential claims as well as contingent
                   liabilities). The risk weighting concept adopted in the Basel capital
                   standards should not be used in measuring credit exposure for this
                   purpose as the relevant risk weights were devised as a measure of
                   credit risk on a basket basis and their use for measuring credit
                   concentrations could significantly underestimate potential losses (see
                   Measuring and controlling large credit exposures, January 1991).

    Such requirements should, at least for internationally active banks,
                   reflect the applicable Basel standards. These are described in LEX.


01.109 Additional criterion:

       In respect of credit exposure to single counterparties or groups of connected
       counterparties, banks are required to adhere to the limits below. Minor deviations
       from these limits may be acceptable, especially if explicitly temporary or related
       to very small or specialised banks.

       (a) ten per cent or more of a bank’s capital is defined as a large exposure; and

       (b) twenty-five per cent of a bank’s capital is the limit for an individual large
           exposure to a private sector non-bank counterparty or a group of connected
           counterparties.


Principle 20 – Transactions with related parties

01.110 Principle 20: in order to prevent abuses arising in transactions with related parties
      and to address the risk of conflict of interest, the supervisor requires banks to
      enter into any transactions with related parties on an arm’s length basis; to
      monitor these transactions; to take appropriate steps to control or mitigate the
      risks; and to write off exposures to related parties in accordance with standard
      policies and processes.

01.111 Essential criteria:

       (1) Laws or regulations provide, or the supervisor has the power to prescribe, a
           comprehensive definition of “related parties”. This considers the parties
           identified in the footnote to the Principle. The supervisor may exercise
           discretion in applying this definition on a case by case basis.

       (2) Laws, regulations or the supervisor require that transactions with related
           parties are not undertaken on more favourable terms (eg in credit
           assessment, tenor, interest rates, fees, amortisation schedules, requirement
           for collateral) than corresponding transactions with non-related
           counterparties.76

       (3) The supervisor requires that transactions with related parties and the write-
           off of related-party exposures exceeding specified amounts or otherwise
           posing special risks are subject to prior approval by the bank’s Board. The
           supervisor requires that Board members with conflicts of interest are
           excluded from the approval process of granting and managing related party
           transactions.

       (4) The supervisor determines that banks have policies and processes to prevent
           persons benefiting from the transaction and/or persons related to such a
           person from being part of the process of granting and managing the
           transaction.

       (5) Laws or regulations set, or the supervisor has the power to set on a general
           or case by case basis, limits for exposures to related parties, to deduct such
           exposures from capital when assessing capital adequacy, or to require
           collateralisation of such exposures. When limits are set on aggregate
           exposures to related parties, those are at least as strict as those for single
           counterparties or groups of connected counterparties.


       (6) The supervisor determines that banks have policies and processes to identify
           individual exposures to and transactions with related parties as well as the
           total amount of exposures, and to monitor and report on them through an
           independent credit review or audit process. The supervisor determines that

            exceptions to policies, processes and limits are reported to the appropriate
            level of the bank’s senior management and, if necessary, to the Board, for
            timely action. The supervisor also determines that senior management
            monitors related party transactions on an ongoing basis, and that the Board
            also provides oversight of these transactions.

       (7) The supervisor obtains and reviews information on aggregate exposures to
           related parties.


       Footnotes
       76          An exception may be appropriate for beneficial terms that are part of
                   overall remuneration packages (eg staff receiving credit at favourable
                   rates).



Principle 21 – Country and transfer risks

01.112 Principle 21: the supervisor determines that banks have adequate policies and
      processes to identify, measure, evaluate, monitor, report and control or mitigate
      country risk and transfer risk in their international lending and investment
      activities on a timely basis.

01.113 Essential criteria:

       (1) The supervisor determines that a bank’s policies and processes give due
           regard to the identification, measurement, evaluation, monitoring, reporting
           and control or mitigation of country risk and transfer risk. The supervisor also
           determines that the processes are consistent with the risk profile, systemic
           importance and risk appetite of the bank, take into account market and
           macroeconomic conditions and provide a comprehensive bank-wide view of
           country and transfer risk exposure. Exposures (including, where relevant,
           intra-group exposures) are identified, monitored and managed on a regional
           and an individual country basis (in addition to the end-borrower/end-
           counterparty basis). Banks are required to monitor and evaluate
           developments in country risk and in transfer risk and apply appropriate
           countermeasures.

      (2) The supervisor determines that banks’ strategies, policies and processes for
          the management of country and transfer risks have been approved by the

           banks’ Boards and that the Boards oversee management in a way that
           ensures that these policies and processes are implemented effectively and
           fully integrated into the banks’ overall risk management process.

      (3) The supervisor determines that banks have information systems, risk
          management systems and internal control systems that accurately
          aggregate, monitor and report country exposures on a timely basis; and
          ensure adherence to established country exposure limits.

      (4) There is supervisory oversight of the setting of appropriate provisions
          against country risk and transfer risk. There are different international
          practices that are all acceptable as long as they lead to risk-based results.
          These include:

           (a) The supervisor (or some other official authority) decides on appropriate
               minimum provisioning by regularly setting fixed percentages for
               exposures to each country taking into account prevailing conditions.
               The supervisor reviews minimum provisioning levels where appropriate.

           (b) The supervisor (or some other official authority) regularly sets
               percentage ranges for each country, taking into account prevailing
               conditions and the banks may decide, within these ranges, which
               provisioning to apply for the individual exposures. The supervisor
               reviews percentage ranges for provisioning purposes where appropriate.

           (c)   The bank itself (or some other body such as the national bankers
                 association) sets percentages or guidelines or even decides for each
                 individual loan on the appropriate provisioning. The adequacy of the
                 provisioning will then be judged by the external auditor and/or by the
                 supervisor.

      (5) The supervisor requires banks to include appropriate scenarios into their
          stress testing programmes to reflect country and transfer risk analysis for risk
          management purposes.

      (6) The supervisor regularly obtains and reviews sufficient information on a
          timely basis on the country risk and transfer risk of banks. The supervisor
          also has the power to obtain additional information, as needed (eg in crisis
          situations).


Principle 22 – Market risks


01.114
       Principle 22: the supervisor determines that banks have an adequate market risk
       management process that takes into account their risk appetite, risk profile, and
       market and macroeconomic conditions and the risk of a significant deterioration
       in market liquidity. This includes prudent policies and processes to identify,
       measure, evaluate, monitor, report and control or mitigate market risks on a
       timely basis.

01.115 Essential criteria:

       (1) Laws, regulations or the supervisor require banks to have appropriate market
           risk management processes that provide a comprehensive bank-wide view of
           market risk exposure. The supervisor determines that these processes are
           consistent with the risk appetite, risk profile, systemic importance and capital
           strength of the bank; take into account market and macroeconomic
           conditions and the risk of a significant deterioration in market liquidity; and
           clearly articulate the roles and responsibilities for identification, measuring,
           monitoring and control of market risk.

       (2) The supervisor determines that banks’ strategies, policies and processes for
           the management of market risk have been approved by the banks’ Boards
           and that the Boards oversee management in a way that ensures that these
           policies and processes are implemented effectively and fully integrated into
           the banks’ overall risk management process.



      (3) The supervisor determines that the bank’s policies and processes establish
          an appropriate and properly controlled market risk environment including:

           (a) effective information systems for accurate and timely identification,
               aggregation, monitoring and reporting of market risk exposure to the
               bank’s Board and senior management;

           (b) appropriate market risk limits consistent with the bank’s risk appetite,
               risk profile and capital strength, and with the management’s ability to
               manage market risk and which are understood by, and regularly
               communicated to, relevant staff;

           (c)   exception tracking and reporting processes that ensure prompt action
                 at the appropriate level of the bank’s senior management or Board,
                 where necessary;

           (d) effective controls around the use of models to identify and measure
               market risk, and set limits; and

           (e) sound policies and processes for allocation of exposures to the trading
               book.

      (4) The supervisor determines that there are systems and controls to ensure that
          banks’ marked-to-market positions are revalued frequently. The supervisor
          also determines that all transactions are captured on a timely basis and that
          the valuation process uses consistent and prudent practices, and reliable
          market data verified by a function independent of the relevant risk-taking
          business units (or, in the absence of market prices, internal or industry-
          accepted models). To the extent that the bank relies on modelling for the
          purposes of valuation, the bank is required to ensure that the model is
          validated by a function independent of the relevant risk-taking businesses
          units. The supervisor requires banks to establish and maintain policies and
          processes for considering valuation adjustments for positions that otherwise
          cannot be prudently valued, including concentrated, less liquid, and stale
          positions.

      (5) The supervisor determines that banks hold appropriate levels of capital
          against unexpected losses and make appropriate valuation adjustments for
          uncertainties in determining the fair value of assets and liabilities.

      (6) The supervisor requires banks to include market risk exposure into their
          stress testing programmes for risk management purposes.


Principle 23 – Interest rate risk in the banking book



01.116 
      Principle 23: the supervisor determines that banks have adequate systems to
      identify, measure, evaluate, monitor, report and control or mitigate interest rate
      risk in the banking book on a timely basis. These systems take into account the
      bank’s risk appetite, risk profile and market and macroeconomic conditions.

01.117 Essential criteria:

       (1) Laws, regulations or the supervisor require banks to have an appropriate
           interest rate risk strategy and interest rate risk management framework that
           provides a comprehensive bank-wide view of interest rate risk. This includes
           policies and processes to identify, measure, evaluate, monitor, report and
           control or mitigate material sources of interest rate risk. The supervisor
           determines that the bank’s strategy, policies and processes are consistent
           with the risk appetite, risk profile and systemic importance of the bank, take
           into account market and macroeconomic conditions, and are regularly
           reviewed and appropriately adjusted, where necessary, with the bank’s
           changing risk profile and market developments.

       (2) The supervisor determines that a bank’s strategy, policies and processes for
           the management of interest rate risk have been approved, and are regularly
           reviewed, by the bank’s Board. The supervisor also determines that senior
           management ensures that the strategy, policies and processes are developed
           and implemented effectively.


        (3) The supervisor determines that banks’ policies and processes establish an
           appropriate and properly controlled interest rate risk environment including:

            (a) comprehensive and appropriate interest rate risk measurement systems;

            (b) regular review, and independent (internal or external) validation, of any
                models used by the functions tasked with managing interest rate risk
                (including review of key model assumptions);

            (c)   appropriate limits, approved by the banks’ Boards and senior
                  management, that reflect the banks’ risk appetite, risk profile and capital
                  strength, and are understood by, and regularly communicated to,
                  relevant staff;

            (d) effective exception tracking and reporting processes which ensure
                prompt action at the appropriate level of the banks’ senior management
                or Boards where necessary; and

            (e) effective information systems for accurate and timely identification,
                aggregation, monitoring and reporting of interest rate risk exposure to
                the banks’ Boards and senior management.

       (4) The supervisor requires banks to include appropriate scenarios into their
           stress testing programmes to measure their vulnerability to loss under
           adverse interest rate movements.

01.118 Additional criteria:

       (1) The supervisor obtains from banks the results of their internal interest rate
           risk measurement systems, expressed in terms of the threat to economic
           value, including using a standardised interest rate shock on the banking
           book.

       (2) The supervisor assesses whether the internal capital measurement systems of
           banks adequately capture interest rate risk in the banking book.


Principle 24 – Liquidity risk

01.119 Principle 24: the supervisor sets prudent and appropriate liquidity requirements
      (which can include either quantitative or qualitative requirements or both) for
      banks that reflect the liquidity needs of the bank. The supervisor determines that
      banks have a strategy that enables prudent management of liquidity risk and
      compliance with liquidity requirements. The strategy takes into account the bank’
      s risk profile as well as market and macroeconomic conditions and includes
      prudent policies and processes, consistent with the bank’s risk appetite, to
      identify, measure, evaluate, monitor, report and control or mitigate liquidity risk
       over an appropriate set of time horizons. At least for internationally active banks,
       liquidity requirements are not lower than the applicable Basel standards.

01.120 Essential criteria:

       (1) Laws, regulations or the supervisor require banks to consistently observe
           prescribed liquidity requirements including thresholds by reference to which
           a bank is subject to supervisory action. At least for internationally active
           banks, the prescribed requirements are not lower than, and the supervisor
           uses a range of liquidity monitoring tools no less extensive than, those
           prescribed in the applicable Basel standards.

       (2) The prescribed liquidity requirements reflect the liquidity risk profile of banks
           (including on- and off-balance sheet risks) in the context of the markets and
           macroeconomic conditions in which they operate.

       (3) The supervisor determines that banks have a robust liquidity management
           framework that requires the banks to maintain sufficient liquidity to
           withstand a range of stress events, and includes appropriate policies and
           processes for managing liquidity risk that have been approved by the banks’
           Boards. The supervisor also determines that these policies and processes
           provide a comprehensive bank-wide view of liquidity risk and are consistent
           with the banks’ risk profile and systemic importance.


     (4) The supervisor determines that banks’ liquidity strategy, policies and
         processes establish an appropriate and properly controlled liquidity risk
         environment including:

         (a) clear articulation of an overall liquidity risk appetite that is appropriate
             for the banks’ business and their role in the financial system and that is
             approved by the banks’ Boards;

         (b) sound day-to-day, and where appropriate intraday, liquidity risk
             management practices;




         (c)   effective information systems to enable active identification,
               aggregation, monitoring and control of liquidity risk exposures and
               funding needs (including active management of collateral positions)
               bank-wide;

         (d) adequate oversight by the banks’ Boards in ensuring that management
             effectively implements policies and processes for the management of
             liquidity risk in a manner consistent with the banks’ liquidity risk
             appetite; and

         (e) regular review by the banks’ Boards (at least annually) and appropriate
             adjustment of the banks’ strategy, policies and processes for the
             management of liquidity risk in the light of the banks’ changing risk
             profile and external developments in the markets and macroeconomic
             conditions in which they operate.



     (5) The supervisor requires banks to establish, and regularly review, funding
         strategies and policies and processes for the ongoing measurement and
         monitoring of funding requirements and the effective management of
         funding risk. The policies and processes include consideration of how other
         risks (eg credit, market, operational and reputation risk) may impact the bank’
         s overall liquidity strategy, and include:

         (a) an analysis of funding requirements under alternative scenarios;

         (b) the maintenance of a cushion of high quality, unencumbered, liquid
             assets that can be used, without impediment, to obtain funding in times
             of stress;

         (c)   diversification in the sources (including counterparties, instruments,
               currencies and markets) and tenor of funding, and regular review of
               concentration limits;

         (d) regular efforts to establish and maintain relationships with liability
             holders; and

         (e) regular assessment of the capacity to sell assets.

     (6) The supervisor determines that banks have robust liquidity contingency
         funding plans to handle liquidity problems. The supervisor determines that
         the bank’s contingency funding plan is formally articulated, adequately
         documented and sets out the bank’s strategy for addressing liquidity
         shortfalls in a range of stress environments without placing reliance on
         lender of last resort support. The supervisor also determines that the bank’s
         contingency funding plan establishes clear lines of responsibility, includes
         clear communication plans (including communication with the supervisor)
         and is regularly tested and updated to ensure it is operationally robust. The
         supervisor assesses whether, in the light of the bank’s risk profile and
         systemic importance, the bank’s contingency funding plan is feasible and
         requires the bank to address any deficiencies.

     (7) The supervisor requires banks to include a variety of short-term and
         protracted bank-specific and market-wide liquidity stress scenarios
         (individually and in combination), using conservative and regularly reviewed
         assumptions, into their stress testing programmes for risk management
         purposes. The supervisor determines that the results of the stress tests are
         used by the bank to adjust its liquidity risk management strategies, policies
         and positions and to develop effective contingency funding plans.


       (8) The supervisor identifies those banks carrying out significant foreign
           currency liquidity transformation. Where a bank’s foreign currency business
           is significant, or the bank has significant exposure in a given currency, the

            supervisor requires the bank to undertake separate analysis of its strategy
            and monitor its liquidity needs separately for each such significant currency.
            This includes the use of stress testing to determine the appropriateness of
            mismatches in that currency and, where appropriate, the setting and regular
            review of limits on the size of its cash flow mismatches for foreign currencies
            in aggregate and for each significant currency individually. In such cases, the
            supervisor also monitors the bank’s liquidity needs in each significant
            currency, and evaluates the bank’s ability to transfer liquidity from one
            currency to another across jurisdictions and legal entities.

01.121 Additional criterion:

       The supervisor determines that banks’ levels of encumbered balance-sheet assets
       are managed within acceptable limits to mitigate the risks posed by excessive
       levels of encumbrance in terms of the impact on the banks’ cost of funding and
       the implications for the sustainability of their long-term liquidity position. The
       supervisor requires banks to commit to adequate disclosure and to set
       appropriate limits to mitigate identified risks.


Principle 25 – Operational risk

01.122 Principle 25: the supervisor determines that banks have an adequate operational
      risk management framework that takes into account their risk appetite, risk
      profile and market and macroeconomic conditions. This includes prudent policies
      and processes to identify, assess, evaluate, monitor, report and control or
      mitigate operational risk on a timely basis.

01.123 Essential criteria:

       (1) Law, regulations or the supervisor require banks to have appropriate
           operational risk management strategies, policies and processes to identify,
           assess, evaluate, monitor, report and control or mitigate operational risk. The
           supervisor determines that the bank’s strategy, policies and processes are
           consistent with the bank’s risk profile, systemic importance, risk appetite and
           capital strength, take into account market and macroeconomic conditions,
           and address all major aspects of operational risk prevalent in the businesses
           of the bank on a bank-wide basis (including periods when operational risk
           could increase).


     (2) The supervisor requires banks’ strategies, policies and processes for the
         management of operational risk (including the banks’ risk appetite for

         operational risk) to be approved and regularly reviewed by the banks’
         Boards. The supervisor also requires that the Board oversees management in
         ensuring that these policies and processes are implemented effectively.

     (3) The supervisor determines that the approved strategy and significant policies
         and processes for the management of operational risk are implemented
         effectively by management and fully integrated into the bank’s overall risk
         management process.

     (4) The supervisor reviews the quality and comprehensiveness of the bank’s
         disaster recovery and business continuity plans to assess their feasibility in
         scenarios of severe business disruption which might plausibly affect the
         bank. In so doing, the supervisor determines that the bank is able to operate
         as a going concern and minimise losses, including those that may arise from
         disturbances to payment and settlement systems, in the event of severe
         business disruption.

     (5) The supervisor determines that banks have established appropriate
         information technology policies and processes to identify, assess, monitor
         and manage technology risks. The supervisor also determines that banks
         have appropriate and sound information technology infrastructure to meet
         their current and projected business requirements (under normal
         circumstances and in periods of stress), which ensures data and system
         integrity, security and availability and supports integrated and
         comprehensive risk management.

     (6) The supervisor determines that banks have appropriate and effective
         information systems to:

         (a) monitor operational risk;

         (b) compile and analyse operational risk data; and

         (c)   facilitate appropriate reporting mechanisms at the banks’ Boards, senior
               management and business line levels that support proactive
               management of operational risk.

     (7) The supervisor requires that banks have appropriate reporting mechanisms
         to keep the supervisor apprised of developments affecting operational risk at
         banks in their jurisdictions.




       (8) The supervisor determines that banks have established appropriate policies
           and processes to assess, manage and monitor outsourced activities.
           Outsourcing policies and processes require the bank to have comprehensive
           contracts and/or service level agreements with a clear allocation of
           responsibilities between the outsourcing provider and the bank. The
           outsourcing risk management programme covers:

            (a) conducting appropriate due diligence for selecting potential service
                providers;

            (b) structuring the outsourcing arrangement;

            (c)   managing and monitoring the risks associated with the outsourcing
                  arrangement;

            (d) ensuring an effective control environment; and

            (e) establishing viable contingency planning.

01.124 Additional criterion:

       The supervisor regularly identifies any common points of exposure to operational
       risk or potential vulnerability (eg outsourcing of key operations by many banks to
       a common service provider or disruption to outsourcing providers of payment
       and settlement activities).


Principle 26 – Internal control and audit

01.125 Principle 26: the supervisor determines that banks have adequate internal control
      frameworks to establish and maintain a properly controlled operating
      environment for the conduct of their business taking into account their risk
      profile. These include clear arrangements for delegating authority and
      responsibility; separation of the functions that involve committing the bank,
      paying away its funds, and accounting for its assets and liabilities; reconciliation
      of these processes; safeguarding the bank’s assets; and appropriate independent
      internal audit and compliance functions to test adherence to these controls as
      well as applicable laws and regulations.

01.126 Essential criteria:
 


     (1) Laws, regulations or the supervisor require banks to have internal control
         frameworks that are adequate to establish a properly controlled operating
         environment for the conduct of their business, taking into account their risk
         profile. These controls are the responsibility of the bank’s Board and/or
         senior management and deal with organisational structure, accounting
         policies and processes, checks and balances, and the safeguarding of assets
         and investments (including measures for the prevention and early detection
         and reporting of misuse such as fraud, embezzlement, unauthorised trading
         and computer intrusion). More specifically, these controls address:

         (a) organisational structure: definitions of duties and responsibilities,
             including clear delegation of authority (eg clear loan approval limits),
             decision-making policies and processes, separation of critical functions
             (eg business origination, payments, reconciliation, risk management,
             accounting, audit and compliance);

         (b) accounting policies and processes: reconciliation of accounts, control
             lists, information for management;

         (c)   checks and balances (or “four eyes principle”): segregation of duties,
               cross-checking, dual control of assets, double signatures; and

         (d) safeguarding assets and investments: including physical control and
             computer access.

     (2) The supervisor determines that there is an appropriate balance in the skills
         and resources of the back office, control functions and operational
         management relative to the business origination units. The supervisor also
         determines that the staff of the back office and control functions have
         sufficient expertise and authority within the organisation (and, where
         appropriate, in the case of control functions, sufficient access to the bank’s
         Board) to be an effective check and balance to the business origination units.

     (3) The supervisor determines that banks have an adequately staffed, permanent
         and independent compliance function that assists senior management in
         managing effectively the compliance risks faced by the bank. The supervisor
         determines that staff within the compliance function are suitably trained,
         have relevant experience and have sufficient authority within the bank to
         perform their role effectively. The supervisor determines that the bank’s
         Board exercises oversight of the management of the compliance function.



     (4) The supervisor determines that banks have an independent, permanent and
         effective internal audit function charged with:

         (a) assessing whether existing policies, processes and internal controls
             (including risk management, compliance and corporate governance
               processes) are effective, appropriate and remain sufficient for the bank’s
               business; and

         (b) ensuring that policies and processes are complied with.

     (5) The supervisor determines that the internal audit function:

         (a) has sufficient resources, and staff that are suitably trained and have
             relevant experience to understand and evaluate the business they are
             auditing;

         (b) has appropriate independence with reporting lines to the bank’s Board
             or to an audit committee of the Board, and has status within the bank to
             ensure that senior management reacts to and acts upon its
             recommendations;

         (c)   is kept informed in a timely manner of any material changes made to
               the bank’s risk management strategy, policies or processes;

         (d) has full access to and communication with any member of staff as well
             as full access to records, files or data of the bank and its affiliates,
             whenever relevant to the performance of its duties;

         (e) employs a methodology that identifies the material risks run by the
             bank;

         (f)   prepares an audit plan, which is reviewed regularly, based on its own
               risk assessment and allocates its resources accordingly; and

         (g) has the authority to assess any outsourced functions.



 The term “compliance function” does not necessarily denote an
                   organisational unit. Compliance staff may reside in operating business
                   units or local subsidiaries and report up to operating business line
                   management or local management, provided such staff also have a
                   reporting line through to the head of compliance who should be
                   independent from business lines.

  The term “internal audit function” does not necessarily denote an
                   organisational unit. Some countries allow small banks to implement a
                   system of independent reviews, eg conducted by external experts, of
                   key internal controls as an alternative.



Principle 27: Financial reporting and external audit

01.127 Principle 27: the supervisor determines that banks and banking groups maintain
      adequate and reliable records, prepare financial statements in accordance with
      accounting policies and practices that are widely accepted internationally and
      annually publish information that fairly reflects their financial condition and
      performance and bears an independent external auditor’s opinion. The supervisor
      also determines that banks and parent companies of banking groups have
      adequate governance and oversight of the external audit function.

01.128 Essential criteria:

       (1) The supervisor holds the bank’s Board and management responsible for
           ensuring that financial statements are prepared in accordance with
           accounting policies and practices that are widely accepted internationally
           and that these are supported by recordkeeping systems in order to produce
           adequate and reliable data.

       (2) The supervisor holds the bank’s Board and management responsible for
           ensuring that the financial statements issued annually to the public bear an
           independent external auditor’s opinion as a result of an audit conducted in
           accordance with internationally accepted auditing practices and standards.

       (3) The supervisor determines that banks use valuation practices consistent with
           accounting standards widely accepted internationally. The supervisor also
           determines that the framework, structure and processes for fair value
           estimation are subject to independent verification and validation, and that
           banks document any significant differences between the valuations used for
           financial reporting purposes and for regulatory purposes.


       (4) Laws or regulations set, or the supervisor has the power to establish the
           scope of external audits of banks and the standards to be followed in
           performing such audits. These require the use of a risk and materiality based
           approach in planning and performing the external audit.

       (5) Supervisory guidelines or local auditing standards determine that audits
           cover areas such as the loan portfolio, loan loss provisions, non-performing
           assets, asset valuations, trading and other securities activities, derivatives,
           asset securitisations, consolidation of and other involvement with off-
           balance sheet vehicles and the adequacy of internal controls over financial
           reporting.

       (6) The supervisor has the power to reject and rescind the appointment of an
           external auditor who is deemed to have inadequate expertise or
           independence, or is not subject to or does not adhere to established
           professional standards.

       (7) The supervisor determines that banks rotate their external auditors (either
           the firm or individuals within the firm) from time to time.

       (8) The supervisor meets periodically with external audit firms to discuss issues
           of common interest relating to bank operations.

       (9) The supervisor requires the external auditor, directly or through the bank, to
           report to the supervisor matters of material significance, for example failure
           to comply with the licensing criteria or breaches of banking or other laws,
           significant deficiencies and control weaknesses in the bank’s financial
           reporting process or other matters that they believe are likely to be of
           material significance to the functions of the supervisor. Laws or regulations
           provide that auditors who make any such reports in good faith cannot be
           held liable for breach of a duty of confidentiality.

 In this Essential Criterion, the supervisor is not necessarily limited to
                   the banking supervisor. The responsibility for ensuring that financial
                   statements are prepared in accordance with accounting policies and
                   practices may also be vested with securities and market supervisors.


01.129 Additional criterion:

       The supervisor has the power to access external auditors’ working papers, where
       necessary.


Principle 28 – Disclosure and transparency

01.130 Principle 28: the supervisor determines that banks and banking groups regularly
      publish information on a consolidated and, where appropriate, solo basis that is
      easily accessible and fairly reflects their financial condition, performance, risk
      exposures, risk management strategies and corporate governance policies and
      processes.

01.131 Essential criteria:

       (1) Laws, regulations or the supervisor require periodic public disclosures of
           information by banks on a consolidated and, where appropriate, solo basis
           that adequately reflect the bank’s true financial condition and performance,
           and adhere to standards promoting comparability, relevance, reliability and
           timeliness of the information disclosed.

       (2) The supervisor determines that the required disclosures include both
           qualitative and quantitative information on a bank’s financial performance,
           financial position, risk management strategies and practices, risk exposures,
           aggregate exposures to related parties, transactions with related parties,
           accounting policies, and basic business, management, governance and
           remuneration. The scope and content of information provided and the level
           of disaggregation and detail is commensurate with the risk profile and
           systemic importance of the bank.

       (3) Laws, regulations or the supervisor require banks to disclose all material
           entities in the group structure.

       (4) The supervisor or another government agency effectively reviews and
           enforces compliance with disclosure standards.

       (5) The supervisor or other relevant bodies regularly publishes information on
           the banking system in aggregate to facilitate public understanding of the
           banking system and the exercise of market discipline. Such information
           includes aggregate data on balance sheet indicators and statistical
           parameters that reflect the principal aspects of banks’ operations (balance
           sheet structure, capital ratios, income earning capacity, and risk profiles).


   In this Essential Criterion, the disclosure requirement may be found in
                   applicable accounting, stock exchange listing, or other similar rules,
                   instead of or in addition to directives issued by the supervisor.




01.132 Additional criterion:

       The disclosure requirements imposed promote disclosure of information that will
       help in understanding a bank’s risk exposures during a financial reporting period,
       for example on average exposures or turnover during the reporting period.


Principle 29 – Abuse of financial services

01.133 Principle 29: the supervisor determines that banks have adequate policies and
      processes, including strict customer due diligence rules to promote high ethical
      and professional standards in the financial sector and prevent the bank from
      being used, intentionally or unintentionally, for criminal activities.

01.134 Essential criteria:

       (1) Laws or regulations establish the duties, responsibilities and powers of the
           supervisor related to the supervision of banks’ internal controls and
           enforcement of the relevant laws and regulations regarding criminal activities.

       (2) The supervisor determines that banks have adequate policies and processes
           that promote high ethical and professional standards and prevent the bank
           from being used, intentionally or unintentionally, for criminal activities. This
           includes the prevention and detection of criminal activity, and reporting of
           such suspected activities to the appropriate authorities.

       (3) In addition to reporting to the financial intelligence unit or other designated
           authorities, banks report to the banking supervisor suspicious activities and
           incidents of fraud when such activities/incidents are material to the safety,
           soundness or reputation of the bank.

       (4) If the supervisor becomes aware of any additional suspicious transactions, it
           informs the financial intelligence unit and, if applicable, other designated
           authority of such transactions. In addition, the supervisor, directly or
           indirectly, shares information related to suspected or actual criminal activities
           with relevant authorities.


     (5) The supervisor determines that banks establish customer due diligence
         (CDD) policies and processes that are well documented and communicated
         to all relevant staff. The supervisor also determines that such policies and
         processes are integrated into the bank’s overall risk management and there
         are appropriate steps to identify, assess, monitor, manage and mitigate risks
         of money laundering and the financing of terrorism with respect to
         customers, countries and regions, as well as to products, services,



         transactions and delivery channels on an ongoing basis. The CDD
         management programme, on a group-wide basis, has as its essential
         elements:

         (a) a customer acceptance policy that identifies business relationships that
             the bank will not accept based on identified risks;

         (b) a customer identification, verification and due diligence programme on
             an ongoing basis; this encompasses verification of beneficial ownership,
             understanding the purpose and nature of the business relationship, and
             risk-based reviews to ensure that records are updated and relevant;

         (c)   policies and processes to monitor and recognise unusual or potentially
               suspicious transactions;

         (d) enhanced due diligence on high-risk accounts (eg escalation to the
             bank’s senior management level of decisions on entering into business
             relationships with these accounts or maintaining such relationships
             when an existing relationship becomes high-risk);

         (e) enhanced due diligence on politically exposed persons (including,
             among other things, escalation to the bank’s senior management level
             of decisions on entering into business relationships with these persons);
             and

         (f)   clear rules on what records must be kept on CDD and individual
               transactions and their retention period. Such records have at least a five
               year retention period.


     (6) The supervisor determines that banks have in addition to normal due
         diligence, specific policies and processes regarding correspondent banking.
         Such policies and processes include:

         (a) gathering sufficient information about their respondent banks to
             understand fully the nature of their business and customer base, and
             how they are supervised; and


         (b) not establishing or continuing correspondent relationships with those
             that do not have adequate controls against criminal activities or that are
             not effectively supervised by the relevant authorities, or with those
             banks that are considered to be shell banks.

     (7) The supervisor determines that banks have sufficient controls and systems to
         prevent, identify and report potential abuses of financial services, including
         money laundering and the financing of terrorism.

     (8) The supervisor has adequate powers to take action against a bank that does
         not comply with its obligations related to relevant laws and regulations
         regarding criminal activities.

     (9) The supervisor determines that banks have:

         (a) requirements for internal audit and/or external experts to
             independently evaluate the relevant risk management policies,
             processes and controls. The supervisor has access to their reports;

         (b) established policies and processes to designate compliance officers at
             the banks’ management level, and appoint a relevant dedicated officer
             to whom potential abuses of the banks’ financial services (including
             suspicious transactions) are reported;

         (c)   adequate screening policies and processes to ensure high ethical and
               professional standards when hiring staff; or when entering into an
               agency or outsourcing relationship; and

         (d) ongoing training programmes for their staff, including on CDD and
             methods to monitor and detect criminal and suspicious activities.



      (10) The supervisor determines that banks have and follow clear policies and
           processes for staff to report any problems related to the abuse of the
           banks’ financial services to either local management or the relevant
           dedicated officer or to both. The supervisor also determines that banks
           have and utilise adequate management information systems to provide the
           banks’ Boards, management and the dedicated officers with timely and
           appropriate information on such activities.

      (11) Laws provide that a member of a bank’s staff who reports suspicious
           activity in good faith either internally or directly to the relevant authority
           cannot be held liable.

      (12) The supervisor, directly or indirectly, cooperates with the relevant domestic
           and foreign financial sector supervisory authorities or shares with them
           information related to suspected or actual criminal activities where this
           information is for supervisory purposes.

      (13) Unless done by another authority, the supervisor has in-house resources
           with specialist expertise for addressing criminal activities. In this case, the
           supervisor regularly provides information on risks of money laundering and
           the financing of terrorism to the banks.


  Consistent with international standards, banks are to report suspicious
                  activities involving cases of potential money laundering and the
                  financing of terrorism to the relevant national centre, established either
                  as an independent governmental authority or within an existing
                  authority or authorities that serves as a financial intelligence unit.

   These could be external auditors or other qualified parties,
                  commissioned with an appropriate mandate, and subject to
                  appropriate confidentiality restrictions.



Structure and guidance for assessment reports prepared by the
International Monetary Fund and the World Bank
01.135 This section presents guidance and a format, recommended by the IMF and the
      World Bank, for the presentation, and organisation of the Basel Core Principles
      (BCP) assessment reports by assessors in the context of the FSAP and stand-
      alone assessments. A self-assessment, conducted by the country’s authorities
      prior to IMF-World Bank assessments, is an essential element in the process, and
      should also follow this guidance and format.



 The guidance and format are also recommended for targeted or risk-
                   based Reports on the Observance of Standards and Codes (ROSCs).
                   Risk-Based or targeted assessments do not cover all core principles, but
                   selected ones based on previous compliance assessments and on an
                   evaluation of relevant risks and vulnerabilities in each country. See
                   specific guidance on risk-based detailed assessment reports (DARs) and
                   ROSCs:

 Such self-assessment should be made available to assessors well in
                   advance – also considering the possible need for translation -
                   accompanied by the supporting legislation and regulation.


01.136 The BCP assessment report should be divided into seven parts, as listed below.
      The following paragraphs provide a brief description of each of the seven parts.

       (1) A general section providing background information and information on the
           methodology used

       (2) An overview of institutional setting and market infrastructure

       (3) A review of preconditions for effective banking supervision

       (4) Detailed Principle-by-Principle assessments

       (5) A compliance table summarising the results of the assessment

       (6) A recommended action plan

       (7) Authority’s response

01.137 A general section provides background information on the assessment
      conducted, ie, the context in which the assessment is being conducted and the
      methodology used. This section should:

       (1) Indicate that the scope of the assessment has been selected with the
           authorities’ agreement, mentioning in particular whether the authorities
           agreed to be assessed and graded on the basis of only the essential criteria
           or agreed to be assessed and graded using additional criteria too. In the
           case of risk-based/targeted assessments, this section must also indicate the
           principles that are reassessed and the reasons for the reassessment. The
           names and affiliations of the assessors should be mentioned in this section.


       (2) Mention the sources used for the assessment such as any self-assessments,
           questionnaires filled out by the authorities, relevant laws, regulations and
            instructions, other documentation such as reports, studies, public
            statements, websites, unpublished guidelines, directives, supervisory reports
            and assessments.

       (3) Identify counterparty authorities and mention, in a generic way, senior
           officials with whom interviews were held; meetings with other domestic
           supervisory authorities, private sector participants, other relevant
           government authorities or industry associations (such as bankers’
           associations, auditors and accountants).

       (4) Mention factors that impeded or facilitated the assessment. In particular,
           information gaps (such as lack of access to supervisory materials, or
           translated documents) should be mentioned, and an indication given of the
           extent to which these gaps may have affected the assessment.


  Names are typically avoided, in order to protect individuals and
                   encourage candour.

 If the lack of information adversely impacts the quality and depth of
                   the assessment of a particular Principle, assessors should refer to this in
                   the comment section of the assessment template, and document the
                   obstacles encountered, in particular where access to in-depth
                   information is crucial in evaluating compliance. Such issues should be
                   brought to the attention of the mission leaders and when necessary
                   referred to headquarters staff for guidance.


01.138 The second section should provide an overview of the supervisory environment
      for the financial sector, with a brief description of the institutional and legal
      setting, in particular the mandate and oversight roles of different supervisory
      authorities, existence of unregulated financial intermediaries, and the role of self-
      regulatory organisations. Furthermore, it should provide a general description of
      the structure of the financial markets and, in particular, the banking sector,
      mentioning the number of banks, total assets to gross domestic product, basic
      review of banking stability, capital adequacy, leverage, asset quality, liquidity,
      profitability and risk profile of the sector, and information on ownership, ie,
      foreign versus domestic, state-owned versus privately-owned, existence of
      conglomerates or unregulated affiliates, and similar information.



01.139 The third section should provide an overview of the preconditions for effective
      banking supervision, as described in this BCP standard. Experience has shown
       that insufficient implementation of the preconditions can seriously undermine the
       quality and effectiveness of banking supervision. Assessors should aim to give a
       factual review of preconditions so that the reader of the report is able to clearly
       understand the environment in which the banking system and the supervisory
       framework are operating. This will provide the perspective for a better
       appreciation of the assessment and grading of individual Principles. The review
       normally should take up no more than one or two paragraphs for each type of
       precondition, and should follow the headings indicated below.

       (1) Sound and sustainable macroeconomic policies: the review should describe
           those aspects that could affect the structure and performance of the banking
           system, and should not express an opinion on the adequacy of policies in
           these areas. It may make reference to analyses and recommendations in
           existing IMF and World Bank documents, such as Article IV and other Bank
           and Fund program-related reports.

       (2) A well established framework for financial stability policy formulation: the
           review should indicate the existence or otherwise of a clear framework for
           macroprudential surveillance and policy stability formulation. It should cover
           the elements of clarity of roles and mandates of the relevant agencies, the
           mechanisms for effective inter-agency cooperation and coordination,
           communication of the macroprudential analyses, risks, and policies, and their
           outcomes. Assessors may rely on independent assessments of the adequacy
           and effectiveness of the framework, where available.

       (3) A well developed public infrastructure: a factual review of the public
           infrastructure should focus on elements relevant to the banking system and,
           where appropriate, be prepared in coordination with other specialists on the
           mission and the IMF-World Bank country teams. This part of the review of
           the preconditions could cover issues such as the presence of a good credit
           culture, a system of business laws including corporate, bankruptcy, contract,
           consumer protection and private property laws that is consistently enforced
           and provides a mechanism for the fair resolution of disputes; the presence of
           well trained and reliable accounting, auditing and legal professions; an
           effective and reliable judiciary; an adequate financial sector regulation; and
           efficient payment, clearing and settlement systems.


     (4) A clear framework for crisis management, recovery and resolution: the review
         should cover the availability of a sound institutional framework for crisis
         management and resolution of banks, and the clarity of the roles and
         mandates of the relevant agencies. While evidence of the effectiveness may
         be observed in the actual management and resolution of past crisis, it may
         be also available from documentation of the outcomes of crisis simulation
         exercises conducted in the jurisdiction. Assessors may rely on independent
         assessments of the adequacy and effectiveness of the framework, where
         available.

     (5) An appropriate level of systemic protection (or public safety net): an
         overview of the safety nets or systemic protection could, for instance, include
         the following elements: an analysis of the functions of the various entities
         involved such as supervisory authorities, deposit insurer and central bank.
         This would be followed by a review of the existence of a well defined process
         for dealing with crisis situations such as the resolution of a failed financial
         institution. This would be combined with a description of the coordination of
         the roles of the various involved entities within this process. Additionally, in
         connection with the use of public funds (including central bank funds) a
         review of whether sufficient measures are in place to minimise moral hazard
         would be conducted. Also, the mechanisms to meet banks' temporary short-
         term liquidity needs, primarily through the interbank market, but also from
         other sources, would need to be described.

     (6) Effective market discipline: a review of market discipline could, for instance,
         cover issues such as the presence of rules on corporate governance,
         transparency and audited financial disclosure, appropriate incentive
         structures for the hiring and removal of managers and Board members,
         protection of shareholders’ rights, adequate availability of market and
         consumer information, disclosure of government influence in banks, tools for
         the exercise of market discipline such as mobility of deposits and other
         assets held in banks, adequate periodicity of interest rate and other price
         quotes, an effective framework for mergers, takeovers, and acquisitions of
         equity interests, possibility of foreign entry into the markets and foreign-
         financed takeovers.



01.140 BCP Assessors should not undertake to assess preconditions themselves, as this is
      beyond the scope of the individual standard assessments. Assessors should rely
      to the greatest extent possible on official IMF and World Bank documents and
      seek to ensure that the brief description and comments are consistent. When
      relevant, the assessors should attempt to include in their analysis the linkages
      between these factors and the effectiveness of supervision. As described in the
      next section, the assessment of compliance with individual Core Principles should
      mention clearly how it is likely to be primarily affected by preconditions that are
      considered to be weak. To the extent shortcomings in preconditions are material
       to the effectiveness of supervision, they may affect the grading of the affected
       Core Principles. Any suggestions aimed at addressing deficiencies in
       preconditions are not part of the recommendations of the assessment but can be
       made into general FSAP recommendations within the scope of the FSAP exercise.

01.141 The fourth section contains a detailed principle-by-principle assessment,
      providing a “description” of the system with regard to each criterion within a
      principle, a grading or “assessment”, and “comments”. The template for the
      detailed assessment is structured as follows.

        Principle (x) (repeating verbatim the text of the Principle)

        Essential criteria

        Description and findings regarding EC1

        Description and findings regarding EC2

        Description and findings regarding ECn

        Additional criteria (only if the authorities choose to be assessed and graded against these
        too)

        Description and findings regarding AC1

        Description and findings regarding ACn

        Assessment of Principle (x)                   Compliant / Largely compliant / Materially non-
                                                       compliant / Non-compliant / Not applicable

        Comments



01.142 The “description and findings” section of the template should provide
      information on the practice as observed in the country being assessed. It should
      cite and summarise the main elements of the relevant laws and regulations. This



       should be done in such a way that the relevant law or regulation can be easily
       located, for instance by reference to URLs, official gazettes, and similar sources.
       Insofar as possible and relevant, the description should be structured as follows:

       (1) banking laws and supporting regulations;

       (2) prudential regulations, including prudential reports and public disclosure;

       (3) supervisory tools and instruments;

       (4) institutional capacity of the supervisory authority; and

       (5) evidence of implementation and/or enforcement or the lack of it.

01.143 Evidence of implementation and/or enforcement is essential - without effective
      use of powers vested in the supervisor and implementation of rules and
      regulations, even a well designed supervisory system will not be effective.
      Examples of practical implementation should be provided by the authorities,
      reviewed by the assessors, and mentioned in the report.

 For instance: how many times over the past years have the authorities
                   applied corrective action? How frequently have banks been inspected
                   on-site? How many licensing applications have been received, and how
                   many have been accepted/turned down? Have asset quality reports
                   been prepared by the inspectors, and how have the conclusions been
                   communicated to senior bank and banking supervision management?


01.144 The “assessment” section of the template should contain only one line, stating
      whether the system is “compliant”, “largely compliant”, “materially non-
      compliant”, “non-compliant” or “not applicable” as described in BCP01.51 and
      BCP01.52.




01.145 The essential criteria set out minimum baseline requirements for sound
      supervisory practices and are of universal applicability to all countries. An
      assessment of a jurisdiction against the essential criteria must, however,
      recognise that its supervisory practices should be commensurate with the risk
      profile and systemic importance of the banks being supervised. In other words,

      the assessment must consider the context in which the supervisory practices are
      applied. As with the essential criteria, any assessment against additional criteria
      should also adopt the principle of proportionality. This principle should underpin
      assessment of all criteria even if it is not always explicitly referred to in the
      criteria. For example, a jurisdiction with many systemically important banks or
      banks that are part of complex mixed conglomerates will naturally have a higher
      hurdle to obtain a “Compliant” grading as compared to a jurisdiction which only
      has small and non-complex banks that are primarily engaged in deposit taking
      and extending loans.

01.146 The “comments” section of the template should be used to explain why a
      particular grading was given. In case of a less than “compliant” grading, this
      section should be used to highlight the materiality of the observed shortcomings
      and indicate which measures would be needed to achieve full compliance or a
      higher level of compliance. This should also be included in the table on
      “recommended actions” (see below). This reasoning could be structured as
      follows:

      (1) the state of the laws and regulations and their implementation;

      (2) the state of the supervisory tools and instruments, for instance reporting
          formats, early warning systems and inspection manuals;

      (3) the quality of practical implementation;

      (4) the state of the institutional capacity of the supervisory authority; and

      (5) enforcement practices.

01.147 The “comments” should explain the cases where, despite the existence of laws,
      regulations and policies, weaknesses in implementation contributed to the
      Principle being graded less than “compliant”. Conversely, when a “compliant”
      grading was given, but observance was demonstrated through different
      mechanisms by the country, this should be explained. The “comments” section
      should also highlight when and why compliance of a particular criterion could not
      be adequately reviewed, such as when certain information was not provided, or
      when key individuals were unavailable to discuss important issues. Requests for
      information or meetings should be documented in the “comments” section, to
      clearly demonstrate the assessor’s attempts to adequately assess a principle.


01.148 Assessors may also include “comments” where they find particularly good
      practices or rules in some field, which may serve as examples and best practice to
      other countries. Planned initiatives aimed at amending existing or adopting new
      regulations and practices, but which are not yet in effect, can receive favourable
      mention in this section. Recent legislative, regulatory or supervisory initiatives for
      which implementation could not be verified should be mentioned in this section
      as well.

01.149 The assessment and accompanying grades should solely be based on the
      regulatory framework and supervisory practices in place at the time of the
      assessment, and should not reflect planned initiatives aimed at amending existing
      or adopting new regulations and practices. This would be applicable in the case
      where actions are in process that would result in a higher compliance rating, but
      have not yet been effected or implemented.

01.150 When linkages between particular principles are evident, or between
      preconditions and principles, this section should be used to caution the reader
      that, although the regulation and practices in principle (x) seem compliant, a
      “compliant” grading cannot be given because of material deficiencies in the
      implementation of principle (y) or precondition (z). While recognising that there
      could be common deficiencies which are both relevant and material enough to
      affect the rating of more than one principle, assessors should avoid double-
      counting as far as possible. If the deficiencies found in linked Principles or
      preconditions are not material enough to warrant a downgrade, this should still
      be brought out in this section of the template.

 For example, regulation and supervision on capital adequacy may
                   seem compliant, but if material deficiencies are found in another
                   principle, such as provisioning, that will mean capital may be
                   overstated and ratios unreliable.


01.151 Grading to a Principle should be given regardless of the level of development of
      a country. If certain criteria are not applicable given the size, nature of operations
      and complexity of a country’s banking system, grading for the Principle should be
      based on level of compliance with the applicable criteria only. This must be
      clearly explained in the relevant section of the report so that a future review can
      reconsider the grading if the situation changes. The same applies to a ‘not-
      applicable’ grading to a Principle.

01.152 The fifth section of the report comprises a compliance table, summarising the
      assessments, principle-by-principle. This table has two versions: the one that does

       not include explicit grading (Table 3) is to be used in Reports on the Observance
       of Standards and Codes (or ROSCs; see BCP01.155), the version with grading
       (Table 2) in the detailed assessment only. This table should convey a clear sense
       of the degree of compliance, providing a brief description of the main strengths
       and, especially, weaknesses with respect to each principle. The template is as
       follows:


      Summary compliance with the Basel Core Principles – Detailed Assessment        Table 2
      Report


                                                     Grade (column not  used in ROSCs)
                      Core principle                                            Comments
                                                      

   1. Responsibilities, objectives and powers
   2. Independence, accountability, resourcing and
      legal protection for supervisors
   3. Cooperation and collaboration
   4. Permissible activities
   5. Licensing criteria
   6. Transfer of significant ownership
   7. Major acquisitions
   8. Supervisory approach
   9. Supervisory techniques and tools
  10. Supervisory reporting
  11. Corrective and sanctioning powers of
      supervisors
  12. Consolidated supervision
  13. Home-host relationships
  14. Corporate governance
  15. Risk management process
  16. Capital adequacy
  17. Credit risk
  18. Problem assets, provisions and reserves
  19. Concentration risk and large exposure limits
  20. Transactions with related parties
  21. Country and transfer risks
  22. Market risk
  23. Interest rate risk in the banking book
  24. Liquidity risk
  25. Operational risk
  26. Internal control and audit
  27. Financial reporting and external audit
  28. Disclosure and transparency
  29. Abuse of financial services


         Summary compliance with the Basel Core Principles – ROSC                   Table 3


                                 Core principle                          Comments

   1. Responsibilities, objectives and powers
   2. Independence, accountability, resourcing and legal protection
      for supervisors
   3. Cooperation and collaboration
   4. Permissible activities
   5.    Licensing criteria
   6.    Transfer of significant ownership
   7.    Major acquisitions
   8.    Supervisory approach
   9.    Supervisory techniques and tools
  10.    Supervisory reporting
  11.    Corrective and sanctioning powers of supervisors
  12.    Consolidated supervision
  13.    Home-host relationships
  14.    Corporate governance
  15.    Risk management process
  16.    Capital adequacy
  17.    Credit risk
  18.    Problem assets, provisions and reserves
  19.    Concentration risk and large exposure limits
  20.    Transactions with related parties
  21.    Country and transfer risks
  22.    Market risk
  23.    Interest rate risk in the banking book
  24.    Liquidity risk
  25.    Operational risk
  26.    Internal control and audit
  27.    Financial reporting and external audit
  28.    Disclosure and transparency
  29.    Abuse of financial services



  The ROSC does not include the grading in the table because the grades
                    cannot be fully understood without the description and detailed
                    comments (which are available only in the DAR).


01.153 The sixth section comprises a “Recommended Actions” table providing Principle-
      by-Principle recommendations for actions and measures to improve the
      regulatory and supervisory framework and practices. This section should list the
      suggested steps for improving compliance and overall effectiveness of the
      supervisory framework. Recommendations should be proposed on a prioritised
      basis in each case where deficiencies are identified. The recommended actions
      should be specific in nature. An explanation could also be provided as to how the
      recommended action would lead to improving the level of compliance and
      strengthening of the supervisory framework. The institutional responsibility for
      each suggested action should also be clearly indicated in order to prevent
      overlap or confusion. Recommendations can also be made with regard to
      deficiencies in compliance with the additional criteria and to principles which are
      fully compliant but where supervisory practice can still be improved. The table
      should indicate only those Principles for which specific recommendations are
      being made. The template for the recommended actions is as follows.

       Recommended actions to improve compliance with the Basel Core Principles and the
       effectiveness of regulatory and supervisory frameworks


            Reference principle                         Recommended action

       Principle (x)                 Example: suggested introduction of regulation  (a), supervisory practice (b)
                                     

       Principle (y)                 Example: suggested introduction of regulation (c),
                                     supervisory practice (d)



01.154 The seventh section describes the authorities’ response to the assessment. The
      assessor should provide the supervisory authority or authorities being assessed
      with an opportunity to respond to the assessment findings, which would include
      providing the authorities with a full written draft of the assessment. Any
      differences of opinion on the assessment results should be clearly identified and
      included in the report. The assessment should allow for greater dialogue, and
      therefore the assessment team should have had a number of discussions with the
      supervisors during the assessment process so that the assessment should also
      reflect the comments, concerns and factual corrections of the supervisors. The
      authority or authorities should also be requested to prepare a concise written
      response to the findings (“right of reply”). The assessment should not, however,
      become the object of negotiations, and assessors and authorities should be
      willing “to agree to disagree”, provided the authorities’ views are represented
      fairly and accurately.



     If no such response is provided within a reasonable time frame, the
                   assessors should note this explicitly and provide a brief summary of the
                   authorities’ initial response provided during the discussion between the
                   authorities and the assessors at the end of the assessment mission
                   (“wrap-up meeting”).


01.155 The presentation of assessment results in ROSCs is different from the
      presentation of the outcome of the "Detailed Assessment" described above.
      Section 4 of the detailed assessment is to be replaced with a section entitled
      “main findings”. This section should summarise the key findings of the detailed
      assessment, and the following main groupings may be useful as a guide:
      responsibilities, objectives, powers, independence, accountability, and
      cooperation (Principles 1-3); ownership, licensing and structure (Principles 4–7);
      methods of ongoing banking supervision (Principles 8–10); corrective and
      sanctioning powers of supervisors (Principle 11); and consolidated and cross-
      border banking supervision (Principles 12–13); corporate governance (Principles
      14); prudential requirements, regulatory framework, accounting and disclosure
      (Principles 15–29).

